Joe Rogan:  Ha, ha, ha. Four, three, two, one. Boom. Thank you. Thanks for doing this, man. Really appreciate it.

Elon Musk:  Your welcome.

Joe Rogan:  It’s very good to meet you.

Elon Musk:  Nice to meet you too.

Joe Rogan:  And thanks for not lighting this place on fire.

Elon Musk:  Your welcome. That’s coming later.

Joe Rogan:  How does one, just in the middle of doing all the things you do, create cars, rockets, all this stuff you’re doing, constantly innovating, decide to just make a flame thrower? Why do you have the time for that?

Elon Musk:  Well, the thing… I wouldn’t put a lot of time into the flame thrower. This was an off the cuff thing. So I have sort of like a, sort of a hobby company called The Boring Company, which started out as a joke, and we decided to make it real, and dig a tunnel under L.A. And then other people asked us to dig tunnels. And so we said yes in a few cases.

Elon Musk:  And we have a merchandise section that only has one piece of merchandise at a time. And we started off with a cap. And there was only one thing on… It was just Boring Company.com/cap or hat. That’s it. And then we sold the hats. Limited edition. It just said the Boring Company. And then I’m a big fan of Spaceballs the movie. And in Spaceballs Yogurt goes through the merchandising section and they have a flame thrower, in the merchandising section of Spaceballs. And the kids loved that one. That’s the line of when he pulls out the flame thrower. So I was like, we should do a flame thrower. So we…

Joe Rogan:  Does anybody tell you no? Does anybody go, “Elon, um, maybe for yourself. But selling a flame thrower, the liabilities, all the people you’re selling this devise to. What kind of an unhinged people are going to be buying a flame thrower in the first place? Do we really want to connect ourselves to all these potential arsonists?”

Elon Musk:  Yeah, it’s a terrible idea. Terrible. You shouldn’t buy one. I said don’t buy this flame thrower. Don’t buy it. Don’t buy it. That’s what I said. But still people bought it.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. They’re not gonna listen.

Elon Musk:  There’s nothing I can do to stop them. I cannot stop them.

Joe Rogan:  You build it, they will come.

Elon Musk:  I said don’t buy it. It’s a bad idea.

Joe Rogan:  How many did you make?

Elon Musk:  It’s dangerous. It’s wrong. Don’t buy it. And still people bought it. I just couldn’t stop them.

Joe Rogan:  How many did you make?

Elon Musk:  20,000.

Joe Rogan:  And they’re all gone?

Elon Musk:  In three, I think four days. They sold out in four days.

Joe Rogan:  Are you gonna do another run?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  No, that’s it?

Elon Musk:  Yes. I said we would do 20,000. We did 50,000 hats. And that was a million dollars. And I was like, okay, we’ll sell something for 10 million. And that was 20,000 flame throwers at $500 each. They went fast.

Joe Rogan:  How do you have the time to do that though. I mean, I understand that it’s not a big deal, in terms of all the other things that you do. But how do you have time to do anything? I just don’t understand your time management skills.

Elon Musk:  I mean, I didn’t spend much time on this flame thrower. I mean, to be totally frank, it’s actually just a roofing torch with an air rifle cover. It’s not a real flame thrower.

Joe Rogan:  Which is why it says not a flame thrower.

Elon Musk:  That’s why we were very clear. This is not actually a flame thrower. And also we were told that various countries would band shipping of it. That they would band flame throwers. So we varied to solve this problem for all the custom agencies, we labeled it not a flame thrower.

Joe Rogan:  Did it work? Was it effective?

Elon Musk:  I don’t know. I think so. Yes.

Joe Rogan:  So far.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Now, but you do…

Elon Musk:  Cause they said you could not ship a flame thrower.

Joe Rogan:  But you do so many different things. Forget about the flame thrower. Like, how do you do all that other shit? Like, how does one decide to fix L.A. traffic by drilling holes in the ground? And who do you even approach with that? Like, when you have this idea, who do you talk to about that?

Elon Musk:  I mean, I’m not saying it’s going to be successful. You know, I’m not asserting that it’s going to be successful. But so far I’ve lived in L.A. for 16 years, and the traffic has always been terrible. And so I don’t see any other ideas for improving the traffic. So, in desperation, we are going to dig a tunnel. And maybe that tunnel will be successful and maybe it won’t.

Joe Rogan:  I’m listening.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. I’m not trying to convince you it’s going to work.

Joe Rogan:  And are the people that you…

Elon Musk:  Or anyone.

Joe Rogan:  But you are starting this though. This is actually a project you’re starting to implement. Right?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, yeah. We’ve dug about a mile. It’s quite long. It takes a long time to walk it.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. Now, when you’re doing this, what is the ultimate plan? The ultimate plan is to have these in major cities, and anywhere there’s mass congestion, and just try it out in L.A. first?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. It’s in L.A. because I mostly live in L.A. That’s the reason. It’s a terrible place to dig tunnels. This is one of the worst place to dig tunnels, because the… Mostly because of the paperwork. People think it’s like, what about seismic. It’s like, actually, tunnels are very safe in earthquakes.

Joe Rogan:  Why is that?

Elon Musk:  Earthquakes are essentially a surface phenomenon. It’s like waves on the ocean. So if there’s a storm, you want to be in a submarine. So being in a tunnel is like being in a submarine. Now the way the tunnel’s constructed is it’s constructed out of these interlocking segments. Kind of like a snake. It’s sort of like a snake exoskeleton with double seals. And so, even when the ground moves the tunnel is actually able to shift along with the ground. Like an underground snake. And it doesn’t crack or break. And it’s extremely unlikely that both seals would be broken. And it’s incapable of taking five atmospheres of pressure. It’s water proof, methane proof, or gas proof of any kind. And meets all California seismic requirements.

Joe Rogan:  So when you have this idea, who do you bring this to?

Elon Musk:  I’m not sure what you mean by that.

Joe Rogan:  Well, when you’re implementing it. So you’re digging holes in the ground.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Like, you have to bring it to someone that lets you do it.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, so, there were some engineers from SpaceX who thought it would be cool to do this. And the guy who runs the day to day, Steve Davis, he’s a long time space engineer. He’s great. So, Steve was like, “I’d like to help make this happen.” I was like, cool.

Elon Musk:  So we started off with digging a hole in the ground. Just got like a permit for a pit, a big pit, and just dug a big pit.

Joe Rogan:  And you had to tell them what the pit’s for? Or you just, uh, hey, we just want to dig a hole?

Elon Musk:  They just fill out this form.

Joe Rogan:  That’s it?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. It was put in our parking lot.

Joe Rogan:  But do you have to give them some sort of blueprint for your ultimate idea? And do they have to approve it? Like, how does that work?

Elon Musk:  No, we just started off with the pit.

Joe Rogan:  Okay.

Elon Musk:  A big pit. And they don’t really care about the existential nature of a pit. You just say I want a pit.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  You know? And it’s a hole in the ground. So then we have a permit for the pit and we dug the pit. And we dug in in, I don’t know, three days, two or three days. Actually I think 48 hours. Something like that. Cause Eric [inaudible 00:08:22] said he was coming by for the hype… He was gonna attend the Hyperloop competition. Which is a student competition we have for who can make the fastest pod in the hyperloop.

Elon Musk:  And he was coming. The finals were going to be on Sunday afternoon. And so Eric was coming by on Sunday afternoon and I was like, you know, we should dig this pit and then show Eric. And this was like, Friday morning. And then, yeah, it was about a little over 40 hours. And 40 hours later we dug the pit. It was like we’re in 24/7 or 24. 48 straight hours. Something like that. And dug this big pit. And we’re like, showed Eric the pit. Like, obviously it’s just a pit. But hey, a hole in the ground is better than no hole in the ground.

Joe Rogan:  And what did you tell him about this pit? I mean, you just said this is the beginning of this idea?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  We’re gonna build tunnels under L.A. to help funnel traffic better.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  And they just go, okay? But we’ve joked around about this in the podcast before. To like, what other person can go to the people that run the city and go, “Hey, we’re gonna did some holes under ground and put some tunnels in there.” And they go, “Oh yeah, okay.”

Elon Musk:  Nothing wrong with a hole in the ground. People dig holes in the ground all the time.

Joe Rogan:  But my question is, like, I know how much time you must be spending on your Tesla factory. I know how much time you must be spending on SpaceX. And yet you still have time to dig holes under the ground in L.A. and come up with these ideas, and then implement them.

Elon Musk:  I got a million ideas.

Joe Rogan:  I’m sure you do.

Elon Musk:  There’s no shortage of that. Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  I just don’t know how you manage your time. I don’t understand it. It doesn’t even seem humanly possible.

Elon Musk:  You know, I do basically… I think people like don’t totally understand what I do with my time. They think that I’m a business guy or something like that. On my Wikipedia page it says business magnate.

Joe Rogan:  What would you call yourself?

Elon Musk:  A business magnet. Could someone please change my Wikipedia page to magnet?

Joe Rogan:  They’ll change it right now.

Elon Musk:  Please change it to…

Joe Rogan:  It’s probably already changed.

Elon Musk:  It’s locked. So somebody has to be able to unlock it and change it to magnet.

Joe Rogan:  Someone will get that.

Elon Musk:  I want to be a magnet. I do engineering, and manufacturing, and that kind of thing. That’s like 80 percent or more of my time.

Joe Rogan:  Ideas and then implementation of those ideas.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, it’s like hardcore engineering.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  Like designing things, you know.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  Structural, mechanical, electrical, software, user interface, engineering, aerospace engineering.

Joe Rogan:  But you must understand there’s not a whole lot of human beings like you. You know that right? To us you’re an oddity-

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  -to chimps like me.

Elon Musk:  We’re all chimps.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah we are.

Elon Musk:  We’re one notch above a chimp.

Joe Rogan:  Some of us are little bit more confused. When I watch you do all these things I’m like, how does this mother fucker have all this time, and all this energy, and all these ideas, and then people just let him do these things?

Elon Musk:  Because I’m an alien.

Joe Rogan:  That’s what I’ve speculated.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  That I’m on record saying this in the past. I wonder.

Elon Musk:  It’s true.

Joe Rogan:  It there was one. I was like if there was like maybe an intelligent being that we created. You know, like some A.I. creature that’s superior to people. Then they would just hang around us for a little while like you’ve been doing. And then fix a bunch of shit. I mean, that’s the way.

Elon Musk:  I might have some mutation or something like that.

Joe Rogan:  You might. Do you think you do?

Elon Musk:  Probably.

Joe Rogan:  Do you wonder? Like, when you’re around normal people you’re like, hmm. Like, what’s up with these boring dumb mother fuckers? Ever?

Elon Musk:  Not bad for a human. But I thing we will not be able to hold a candle to A.I.

Joe Rogan:  You scare the shit out of me when you talk about A.I. Between you and Sam Harris.

Elon Musk:  Oh sure.

Joe Rogan:  I didn’t even consider it until I had a podcast with Sam once-

Elon Musk:  That’s great.

Joe Rogan:  -and he made me shit my pants. Talking about A.I., I realize like, oh, well this is a genie that once it’s out of the bottle you’re never getting it back in.

Elon Musk:  That’s true.

Joe Rogan:  There was a video that you tweeted about one of those Boston dynamic robots.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  And you were like, in the future it’ll be moving so fast you can’t see it without a strobe light.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. You could probably do that right now.

Joe Rogan:  And no one’s really paying attention to much. Other than people like you or people that are really obsessed with technology. All these things are happening. These robots are… Did you see the one where PETA put out a statement that you shouldn’t kick robots?

Elon Musk:  Probably not wise.

Joe Rogan:  For retribution.

Elon Musk:  Their memory is very good.

Joe Rogan:  I bet it’s really good.

Elon Musk:  It’s really good.

Joe Rogan:  I bet it is.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  And getting better every day.

Elon Musk:  It’s really good.

Joe Rogan:  Are you honestly, legitimately concerned about this? Is A.I. one of your main worries in regards to the future?

Elon Musk:  Yes. It’s less of a worry than it used to be. Mostly due to taking more of a fatalistic attitude.

Joe Rogan:  So you used to have more hope and you gave up some of it, and now you don’t worry as much about A.I. You’re like, this is just what it is?

Elon Musk:  Pretty much. No, it’s not necessarily bad. It’s just, it’s definitely going to be outside of human control.

Joe Rogan:  Not necessarily bad, right?

Elon Musk:  It’s not necessarily bad. It’s just outside of human control. Now the thing that’s going to be tricky here is that it’s going to be very tempting to use A.I. as a weapon. It’s going to be very tempting. In fact, it will be used as a weapon. So the on ramp to serious A.I., the danger is going to be more humans using it against each other I think. Most likely. That’ll be the danger. Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  How far do you think we are from something that can make its own mind up whether or not something ethically or morally correct, or whether or not it wants to do something, or whether or not it wants to improve itself, or whether or not it wants to protect itself from people, or from other A.I. How far away are we from something that’s really, truly sentient?

Elon Musk:  Well, I mean, you could argue that any group of people, like, a company is essentially a cybernetic collective of people and machines. That’s what a company is. And then there are different levels of complexity in the way these companies are formed. And then there are sort of this collective A.I. in the Google sort of search. Google search. You know, where we’re all sort of plugged in as like nerds on the network. Like leaves on a big tree. We’re all feeding this network with our questions and answers. We’re all collectively programming the A.I. And Google plus all the humans that connect to it are one giant cybernetic collective.

Elon Musk:  This also true of Facebook, and Twitter, and Instagram, and all these social networks. They’re giant cybernetic collectives.

Joe Rogan:  Humans and electronics all interfacing. And constantly now. Constantly connected?

Elon Musk:  Yes. Constantly.

Joe Rogan:  One of the things that I’ve been thinking about a lot over the last few years is, that one of the things that drives a lot of people crazy is how many people are obsessed with materialism and getting the greatest thing. And I wonder how much of that is… Well, a lot of it is most certainly fueling technology and innovation. It almost seems like it’s built in to us. It’s like what we like and what we want. That we’re fueling this thing that’s constantly around us all the time. And it doesn’t seem possible that people are going to pump the breaks. It doesn’t seem possible at this stage where we’re constantly expecting newest cellphone, the latest Tesla update, the newest MacBook Pro. Everything has to be newer and better.

Joe Rogan:  And that’s going to lead to some incredible point. And it seems like it’s built into us. It almost seems like it’s an instinct that we’re working towards this. That we like it. That our job, just like the ants build the ant hill, our job is to somehow to fuel this.

Elon Musk:  Yes. I made those comments some years ago. But it feels like we are the biological boot loader for A.I. effectively. We are moving it. And then we’re building progressively greater intelligence. And the percentage of intelligence that is not human is increasing. And eventually we will represent a very small percentage of intelligence.

Elon Musk:  But the A.I. is informed, strangely, by the human limbic system. It is in large part our [inaudible 00:18:01].

Joe Rogan:  How so?

Elon Musk:  We mentioned all those things. The sort of primal drives-

Joe Rogan:  Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Elon Musk:  -as all the things that we like, and hate, and fear. There all there on the internet. They’re a projection of our limbic system. It’s true.

Joe Rogan:  No, it makes sense. The thinking of it as a… Thinking of corporations and just thinking of just human beings communicating online through these social media networks as some sort of an organism that’s a cyborg. It’s combination. It’s a combination of electronics and biology.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. And some measure, like the success of these online systems, is sort of a function of how much limbic resonance they’re able to achieve with people. The more limbic resonance, the more engagement.

Joe Rogan:  Whereas, like, one of the reasons probably Instagram is more enticing than Twitter.

Elon Musk:  Limbic resonance.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. More images, more video.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Tweaking your system more.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Do you worry or wonder, in fact, about what the next step is? I mean, a lot of people didn’t see Twitter coming. That, you know, communicating with 140 characters, or 280 now, would be a thing that people would be interested in. Like, it’s gonna excel, it’s gonna become more connected to us, right?

Elon Musk:  Yes. Things are getting more and more connected. They’re, at this point, constrained by [inaudible 00:19:53]. Our input/output is slow. Particularly output. Output got worse with thumbs. You know, we used to have input with ten fingers. Now we have thumbs. But images are also a way of communicating at high bandwidth. You take pictures and you send pictures to people. That communicates far more information that you can communicate with your thumbs.

Joe Rogan:  So what happened with you where you decided, or you took on a more fatalistic attitude? Was there any specific thing? Or was it just the inevitability of our future?

Elon Musk:  I try to convince people to slow down, slow down A.I., to regulate A.I. This was futile. I tried for years. But nobody listened.

Joe Rogan:  This seems like a scene in a movie where the robots are gonna fucking take over. You’re freaking me out. Nobody listened?

Elon Musk:  Nobody listened.

Joe Rogan:  No one? Are people more inclined to listen today? It seems like an issue that’s brought up more often over the last few years than it was maybe five, ten years ago, it seemed like science fiction.

Elon Musk:  Maybe they will. So far they haven’t. I think people don’t… Like, normally the way that regulations work is very slow. It’s very slow indeed. So, usually there will be something. Some new technology. It will cause damage or death. There will be an outcry. There will be an investigation. Years will pass. There will be some sort of incite committee. There will be rule making. Then there will be oversight. Eventually regulations. This all takes many years. This is the normal course of things.

Elon Musk:  If you look at say, automotive regulations. How long did it take for seat belts to be implemented, to be required? You know, the auto industry fought seat belts, I think, for more than a decade. Successfully fought any regulations on seat belts. Even though the numbers were extremely obvious. If you had a seatbelt on you would be far less likely to die or be seriously injured. It was unequivocal.

Elon Musk:  And the industry fought this for years, successfully. Eventually after many, many people died, regulators insisted on seat belts. This timeframe is not relevant to A.I. You can’t 10 years from the point at which is dangerous. It’s too late.

Joe Rogan:  And you feel like this is decades away or years away from being too late? If you have this fatalistic attitude and you feel like it’s going to… We’re in an almost like a doomsday countdown.

Elon Musk:  It’s not necessarily a doomsday countdown. It’s a…

Joe Rogan:  Out of control countdown?

Elon Musk:  Out of control. Yeah. People call it the singularity. And that’s probably a good way to think about it. It’s a singularity. It’s hard to predict. Like a black hole. What happens past the event horizon?

Joe Rogan:  Right. So once it’s implemented it’s very difficult… cause it will be able to…

Elon Musk:  Once the genie gets out of the bottle what’s going to happen?

Joe Rogan:  Right. And it will be able to improve itself.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  That’s where it gets spooky, right? The idea that it can do thousands of years of innovation very, very quickly.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  And then we’ll be just ridiculous.

Elon Musk:  Ridiculous.

Joe Rogan:  We will be like this ridiculous biological shitting pissing thing trying to stop the gods. No stop. We like living with a finite life span and watching Norman Rockwell paintings.

Elon Musk:  It could be terrible and it could be great. It’s not clear.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  But one thing is for sure, we will not control it.

Joe Rogan:  Do you think that it’s likely that we will emerge somehow or another with this sort of technology, and it will augment what we are now? Or do you think it will replace us?

Elon Musk:  Well, that’s the scenario, the emerge scenario with A.I. is the one that seems like probably the best.

Joe Rogan:  For us?

Elon Musk:  Yes. Like, if you can’t beat it, join it.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  You know? So, from a long term existential standpoint, that’s like the purpose of neuro link. Is to create a hight bandwidth interface to the brain such that we can be symbiotic with A.I. Cause we have a bandwidth problem. We just can’t communicate through. It goes through too slow.

Joe Rogan:  And where’s neuro link at right now?

Elon Musk:  I think we’ll have something interesting to announce in a few months. That’s at least in order of magnitude rather that anything else. I think better that probably anyone thinks is possible.

Joe Rogan:  How much can you talk about that right now?

Elon Musk:  I don’t want to jump the gun on that.

Joe Rogan:  But what’s like the ultimate… What’s the idea behind it? What are you trying to accomplish with it? What would you like? Best case scenario.

Elon Musk:  I think best case scenario we effectively merge with A.I. where A.I. serves as a [inaudible 00:25:46] cognition layer where we got the limbic system. The primitive brain essentially. You got the cortex. So you’re currently in a symbiotic relationship. Your cortex and limbic system are in a symbiotic relationship. And generally people like their cortex and they like their limbic system. I haven’t met anyone who wants to delete their limbic system or delete their cortex. Everybody seems to like both.

Elon Musk:  And the cortex is mostly in service to the limbic system. People may think that the thinking part of themselves is in charge, but it’s mostly the limbic system that’s in charge. And the cortex is trying to make the limbic system happy. That’s what most of that computing power is going towards, how can I make the limbic system happy. That’s what it’s trying to do.

Elon Musk:  Now, If we do have a third layer, which is the A.I. extension of yourself that is also symbiotic, and there’s enough bandwidth between the cortex and the A.I. extension of yourself such that the A.I. doesn’t defacto separate, then that could be a good outcome. That could be quite a positive outcome for the future.

Joe Rogan:  So instead of replacing us, it will radically change our capabilities?

Elon Musk:  Yes. It will enable anyone who wants to have super human cognition. Anyone who wants. It is not a matter of earning power, because your earning power would be vastly greater after you do it. So it’s just like anyone who wants can just do it, in theory. That’s the theory.

Elon Musk:  And if that’s the case, then let’s say billions of people do it, then the outcome for humanity will be the sum of human will. The some of billions of people’s desire for the future.

Joe Rogan:  Billions of people with enhanced cognitive ability.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Radically enhanced?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  And which would be… But how much different than people today? Like if you had to explain it to a person who didn’t really understand what you were saying. How much different are you talking about? When you say radically improved, like, what do you mean? Do you mean mind reading?

Elon Musk:  It would be difficult to really appreciate the difference. It’s kind of like how much smarter are you with a phone or computer than without. Your vastly smarter actually. You know, you could answer any question if you’re connected to the internet. You can answer any question pretty much instantly. Any calculation. That your phone’s memory is essentially perfect. You can remember flawlessly. Your phone can remember videos, pictures, everything perfectly.

Elon Musk:  Your phone is already an extension of you. You’re already a cyborg. Most people don’t realize they are already a cyborg. That phone is an extension of yourself. It’s just that the data rate, the rate at which the communication rate between you and the cybernetic extension of yourself, that is your phone and computer, is slow. It’s very slow. And that’s like a tiny stroll of information flow between your biological self and your digital self. And we need to make that tiny stroll like a giant river. A huge high bandwidth interface. It’s an interface problem. Data rate problem.

Elon Musk:  You solve the data rate problem and I think we can hang on to human machines and biosis through the long term. And then people may decide that they want to retain their biological self or not. I think they will probably choose to retain their biological self.

Joe Rogan:  Versus some sort of [inaudible 00:30:09] scenario where they download themselves into at computer?

Elon Musk:  You will be essentially snap shotted into a computer at any time. If your biological self dies you can just probably upload into a new unit. Literally.

Joe Rogan:  Pass that whiskey. We’re getting crazy over here. This is getting ridiculous.

Elon Musk:  Down the rabbit hole.

Joe Rogan:  Grab that sucker. Give me some of that. This is too freaky.

Elon Musk:  I’ve been thinking about this for a long time by the way.

Joe Rogan:  I believe you have. If i was talking to on of my… Cheers by the way.

Elon Musk:  Cheers. Hey, this is some great whiskey.

Joe Rogan:  Thank you. I don’t know where this came from. Who brought this to us?

Jamie:        I’m trying to remember. I can’t.

Joe Rogan:  Somebody gave it to us. Old Camp. Whoever it was, thanks.

Elon Musk:  It’s good.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, it is good. This is just inevitable. Again, going back to when you decided to have this fatalistic viewpoint. So, you tried to warn people. You talked about this pretty extensively. I’ve read several interviews where you talked about this. And then you just sort of said, okay, it just is. And in a way you’re, by communicating the potential fear. I mean, for sure you’re getting the warning out to some people?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. I mean, I was really going on the warning quite a lot. Warning everyone I could. Even met with Obama and just for one reason, like, you better watch out.

Joe Rogan:  Just to talk about A.I.?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  And what did he say? He said what about Hillary. Worry about her first. Shhh. Everybody be quiet.

Elon Musk:  No, he listened. He certainly listened. I met with congress. I was at meeting with all 50 governors and talked about just the A.I. danger. And I talked to everyone I could. No one seemed to realize where this was going.

PART 1 OF 5 ENDS [00:32:04]

Elon Musk:  No one seemed to realize where this was going.

Joe Rogan:  Is it that or do they just assume that someone smarter than them has already taken care of it? Because when people hear about something like AI, it’s almost abstract. It’s almost like it’s so hard to wrap your head around it …

Elon Musk:  It is.

Joe Rogan:  … by the time it already happens it will be too late.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. I think they didn’t quite understand it or didn’t think it was near term or not sure what to do about it. I feel like an obvious thing to do is to just establish a committee, government committee, to gain insight before you oversight, before you do regulations just try to understand what’s going on. And then you have an insight committee and once they learn what’s going on, get up to speed, then they can make maybe some rules or propose some rules. And that would be probably a safer way to go about things.

Joe Rogan:  It seems … I know that it’s probably something that the government is supposed to handle but it seems like I wouldn’t want … I don’t want the government to handle this.

Elon Musk:  Who do you want to handle it?

Joe Rogan:  I want you to handle this.

Elon Musk:  Oh, do you?

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. I feel like you’re the one who could ring the bell better. Because if Mike Pence starts talking about AI, I’m like, “Shut up, bitch. You don’t know anything about AI.” Come on, man. He doesn’t know what he’s talking about.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, but I don’t have the power to regulate other companies. What am I supposed to …?

Joe Rogan:  Right. But maybe companies could agree. Maybe there could be sort of a … We have agreements where you’re not supposed to dump toxic waste into the ocean. You’re not supposed to do certain things that could be terribly damaging even though they’d be profitable. Maybe this is one of those things. Maybe we should realize that you can’t hit the switch on something that’s going to be able to think for itself and make up its own mind as to whether or not it wants to survive or not. And whether or not it thinks you’re a threat. And whether or not it thinks you’re useless. Like, “Why do I keep this dumb, finite life form alive. Why keep this thing around? It’s just stupid. It just keeps polluting everything. It’s shitting everywhere it goes, lighting everything on fire and shooting each other. Why would I keep this stupid thing alive. Because sometimes it makes good music? Sometimes it makes great movies and sometimes it makes beautiful art and sometimes it’s cool to hang out with.”

Elon Musk:  Yeah. All those reasons.

Joe Rogan:  For us, those are great reasons. But for anything objective, standing outside, I’d go, “Oh, this is definitely a flawed system.” This is like if you went to the jungle and you watched these chimps engage in warfare and beat each other up.

Elon Musk:  Chimps are really mean.

Joe Rogan:  They’re fucking real mean.

Elon Musk:  Fucking mean.

Joe Rogan:  They’re real mean.

Elon Musk:  I saw that movie Chimpanzee. I thought it was going to be like some Disney thing. I was like, “Holy Cow.”

Joe Rogan:  What movie was that?

Elon Musk:  It was a movie called Chimpanzee.

Joe Rogan:  Is it a documentary?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. It’s kind of like a documentary. I was like, “Damn these chimps are mean.”

Joe Rogan:  They’re mean.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. They’re cruel.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. They’re calculated.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  They sneak up on each other.

Elon Musk:  I didn’t realize chimps calculated cruelty. I left that movie kind of like, “Whoa. This is dark.”

Joe Rogan:  Right, well we know better because we’ve advanced. But if we hadn’t we’d be like, “Man I don’t want to fucking live in a house. I like the chimp ways, bro. Chimps ways go. This is it, man. Chimp life.”

Elon Musk:  Chimp life.

Joe Rogan:  But we, in a way, to the AI might be like those chimps. And like, “These stupid fucks launching missiles out of drones and shooting each underwater.” Like we’re crazy. We’ve got torpedoed submarines and fucking airplanes that drop nuclear bombs indiscriminately on cities. We’re assholes.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  They might go, “Why are they doing this.” They might like look at our politics, look at what we do in terms of our food system, what kind of food we force down each other’s throats. And might go, “These people are crazy. They don’t even look out for themselves.”

Elon Musk:  I don’t know. How much do we think about chimps. Not much.

Joe Rogan:  Very little.

Elon Musk:  It’s like these chimps are at war. These groups of chimps just attack each other and they kill each other and they torture each other. It’s pretty bad. They hunt monkeys. This is probably the most … I mean, when’s the last time you talked about chimps?

Joe Rogan:  Me?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  All the time.

Elon Musk:  You do?

Joe Rogan:  You’re talking to the wrong guy. This fucking podcast, dude, I talk about chimps ever episode.

Elon Musk:  Chimp city? Okay.

Joe Rogan:  People are laughing right now. Yeah. Constantly. I’m obsessed. I saw that David Attenborough documentary on chimps where they were eating those colobus monkeys and ripping them apart.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. This was rough. Gruesome.

Joe Rogan:  I saw that many, many years ago. It changed how I …. “Oh, this is why people are so crazy. We came from that thing.”

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Exactly. And there’s the bonobos. They’ve got a better philosophy.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, they’re like swingers. They really are. They seem to be way more – even than us – way more civilized.

Elon Musk:  They just seem to resolve everything with sex.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. The only rules they have is the mom won’t bang the son. That’s it.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  That’s it. Mom won’t bang her sons. They’re good women. Good women of bonobos community. Everybody else is banging it out.

Elon Musk:  I haven’t seen the bonobos movie.

Joe Rogan:  Well, they’re disturbing just at a zoo. You have bonobos at a zoo.

Elon Musk:  They’re just constantly going?

Joe Rogan:  They’re constantly fucking. Yeah. That’s all they do.

Elon Musk:  [inaudible 00:37:31] stuff.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. And they don’t care. Gay. Straight. Whatever. Let’s just fuck. What’s with these labels?

Elon Musk:  I haven’t seen bonobos at a zoo. That was probably not in the PG section.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, I don’t think they have them at many zoos. We’ve looked that up before too.

Elon Musk:  It’s probably pretty awkward.

Joe Rogan:  I think that’s a thing. They like to keep regular chimps at zoos because bonobos just always jacking off and fucking.

Jamie:        [inaudible 00:37:53] San Diego.

Joe Rogan:  What’s that? They have the in San Diego?

Elon Musk:  San Diego’s has got them.

Joe Rogan:  Really. Interesting. Probably separate them.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. I mean, how many other in the cage? It’s going to be pretty intense.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. What a weird thing. And I’ve often wondered whether or not we’re … our ultimate goal is to give birth to some new thing, and that’s why we’re so obsessed with technology. Because it’s not like this technology is really … I mean, it’s certainly enhancing our lives in a certain way. But ultimately is it making people happier right now? Most technology, I would say no. In fact you and I were talking about social media before this, about just not having Instagram on your phone and not dealing … You feel better.

Elon Musk:  Yes. I think one of the issues with social media that’s been pointed out by many people is that, I think maybe particularly Instagram, people look like they have a much better life than they really do.

Joe Rogan:  Right. By design.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. People are posting pictures of when they’re really happy. They’re modifying those pictures to be better looking. Even if they’re not modifying the pictures, they’re at least selecting the pictures for the best lighting, the best angle. So people basically seem … They’re way better looking than they basically really are. And they’re way happier seeming than they really are.

Elon Musk:  So if you look at everyone on Instagram you might think, “Man, there are all these happy, beautiful people. And I’m not that good looking and I’m not happy. So I must suck.” You know, and that’s going to make you feel sad. So when, in fact, those people you think are super happy actually not that happy. Some of them are really depressed. They’re very sad. Some of the happiest seeming people, actually some of the saddest people in reality.

Elon Musk:  And nobody looks good all the time. It doesn’t matter who you are.

Joe Rogan:  No. It’s not even something you should want. Why do you want to look great all the time?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Exactly. So I think things like that can make people quite sad. Just by comparison. Because people generally think of themselves relative to others. We are constantly rebaselining our expectations. And you can see this, say, if you watch some show like Naked and Afraid or if you just go and try living in the woods by yourself for a while. And you’re like, “Civilization is quite great.” People want to come back to civilization pretty fast on Naked and Afraid.

Joe Rogan:  Wasn’t that a Thoreau quote, that comparison is the thief of joy?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Or happiness is reality minus expectations.

Joe Rogan:  That’s great too. But the comparison is the thief of joy really holds true to … Is it?

Elon Musk:  Theodore Roosevelt.

Joe Rogan:  Roosevelt. Fascinating. And when you’re thinking about Instagram, because what essentially Instagram is with a lot of people is you’re giving them the opportunity to be their own PR agent. And they always go towards the glamorous. And when anybody does show, you know #no filter, they really do do that. “Oh, you’re so brave. Look at you. No make up.” They look good anyway. You look great. What are you doing. Oh my god, you don’t have makeup on. You still look hot as fuck. You know what you’re doing. I know what you’re doing too. They’re letting you know and then they’re feeding off that comment section. Oooh, just look. Sitting there like it’s a fresh stream of love. Like you’re getting right up to the source as it comes out of the earth and you’re sucking that sweet, sweet love water.

Elon Musk:  A lot of emojis. Emojis. Emojis. A lot of emojis.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. My concern is not so much what Instagram is, is that I didn’t think the people had the need for this or the expectation for some sort of technology that allows them to constantly get love and adulation from strangers, and comments, and this ability to project this sort of distorted version of who you really are. But I worry about where it goes. Like what’s the next one? What’s the next one? Where is it? Is it going to be augmented? Some sort of a weird augmented or virtual sort of Instagram type situation, where you’re not going to want to live in this real world? You’re going to interface with this world that you’ve created through your social media page. Some next level thing.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Go live in the simulation. In the simulation.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. Some Ready Player One type shit that’s real. We have that HTC Vive here. I’ve only done it a couple of times quite honestly because it kind of freaks me out. My kids fucking love it, man. They love it. They love playing these weirdo games and walking around with that headset on. But part of me watching them do it goes, “Wow. I wonder if this is like the precursor?” Just sort of like if you look at that phone that Gordon Gekko had on the beach.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, big cell phone.

Joe Rogan:  And you compare that to a Galaxy Note 9. How the fuck did that become that? Right? And I wonder when I see this HTC Vive, I’m like, “What is that thing going to be 10 years from now when we’re making fun of what it is now?” How ingrained, and how connected and interconnected, is this technology going to be in our life?

Elon Musk:  It will be at some point indistinguishable from reality.

Joe Rogan:  Where we’ll lose this. We’ll lose this. Like you and I are just looking at each other through our eyes. I see you. You see me.

Elon Musk:  Are we?

Joe Rogan:  I think. I hope.

Elon Musk:  You think so.

Joe Rogan:  I think you probably have regular eyes.

Elon Musk:  This could be some simulation.

Joe Rogan:  It could be. Do you entertain that?

Elon Musk:  Well, the argument for the simulation is quite strong because if you assume any improvements at all over time, any improvement, 1%, .1%, just extend the time frame. Make it a thousand years, a million years. The universe is 13.8 billion years old. Civilization, if you’re very generous, civilization is maybe seven or eight thousand years old, if you count it from the first writing. That is nothing. That is nothing.

Elon Musk:  So if you assume any rate of improvement at all then games will be indistinguishable from reality. Or civilization will end. One of those two things will occur. Therefore we are most likely in a simulation, because we exist.

Joe Rogan:  Or, we’re on our way to one. Right?

Joe Rogan:  We could most certainly be on the road. We could be on the road to that, right? It doesn’t mean that it has to have already happened.

Elon Musk:  It could be a base reality. It could be in base reality.

Joe Rogan:  We could be here now, on our way to the destination where this could never happen again. Where we are completely ingrained in some sort of an artificial technology, or some sort of a symbiotic relationship with the internet or the next level of sharing information. But right now we’re not there yet. That’s possible too, right? It’s possible that a simulation is one day going to be inevitable. That we’re going to have something that’s indistinguishable from regular reality? But maybe we’re not there yet. That’s also possible.

Elon Musk:  Yes, it is.

Joe Rogan:  That we’re not quite there yet. That this is real, when I touch that wood.

Elon Musk:  Feels very real.

Joe Rogan:  Maybe that’s why everybody’s into like Mason jars and shit.

Elon Musk:  Mason jars.

Joe Rogan:  Suede shoes. People are into craft restaurants and they want raw wood. Everyone wants to see metal. It seems like people are longing towards some weird log cabin type nostalgia.

Elon Musk:  Sure. Reality.

Joe Rogan:  Like holding on. Like clinging.

Elon Musk:  Sure.

Joe Rogan:  Dragging their nails through the mud, like “Don’t take me yet.”

Elon Musk:  Yes. But then people will go get a Mason jar with a wine stem or handle. That’s dark. Makes me lose faith in humanity.

Joe Rogan:  Mason jar with a wine stem and a handle. They have those?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, those [inaudible 00:46:04] people. That’s just assholes. That’s like people make pet rocks.

Elon Musk:  Rough.

Joe Rogan:  Some people are just assholes. They take advantage of our generous nature.

Elon Musk:  It was made with a wine stem, made with a handle.

Joe Rogan:  They made it that way?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  So one maker welded it onto the Mason …

Elon Musk:  That would be fine if they glued it on or something. But it was made that way.

Joe Rogan:  White trash chic. Oh, this is disgusting. Look at it. There is is right there.

Elon Musk:  Pretty harsh. Yep.

Joe Rogan:  This is terrible. That’s like fake breasts that are designed to be hard, like fake breasts from the ’60s. If you really long for the ones with ripples, here we go. Yeah. That’s almost what that is.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  What are you going to do, man? There’s nothing you can do to stop certain terrible idea from propagating.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Anyway I don’t want to sound like things are too dark because I think you have to be optimistic about the future. There’s not point in being pessimistic. It’s just to negative.

Joe Rogan:  It’s doesn’t help.

Elon Musk:  It doesn’t help. You know I think you want to be … My theory is you’d rather be optimistic. I’d rather be optimistic and wrong than pessimistic and right. Or on that side. Because if you’re pessimistic you’re just going to be miserable.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. Nobody wants to be around you anyway if it’s the end of the world, like, “I fucking told you, bro. The world is ending.” It is want it is.

Elon Musk:  Enjoy the journey.

Joe Rogan:  Right. If you really want to get morose, it is what it is for all of us anyway. We’re all going to … unless something changes.

Elon Musk:  Yep. Ultimately even if we just sort of existed as humans forever we’d still eventually, that’d be like the heat death of the universe a zillion years from now.

Joe Rogan:  Right. Even if we get past the sun. We figure out a way past the sun running out of juice.

Elon Musk:  Eventually it’s going to end. It’s just a question of when.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  So it really is all about the journey.

Joe Rogan:  Hmmm. Or transcendence, from whatever we are now into something that doesn’t worry about death.

Elon Musk:  The universe as we know it will dissipate into a fine mist of cold nothingness eventually.

Joe Rogan:  And then someone’s going to bottle it and put a fragrance to it. Sell it to French people in another dimension.

Elon Musk:  It’s just a very long time. So I think it’s really just about how can we make it last longer.

Joe Rogan:  Are you a proponent of the multi universes theory? Do you believe that there are many, many universes, and that even if this one fades out that there’s other ones that are starting fresh right now and there’s an infinite number of them? They’re just constantly in this never-ending cycle of birth and death.

Elon Musk:  I think most likely, this is just about probability there are many, many simulations. These simulations, you might as well call them reality. Or you could call them multiverse.

Joe Rogan:  These simulations you believe are created? Like someone has manufactured …?

Elon Musk:  They’re running on the substrate.

Joe Rogan:  So ….?

Elon Musk:  That substrate is probably boring.

Joe Rogan:  Boring?

Elon Musk:  Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Joe Rogan:  How so?

Elon Musk:  Well, when we create a simulation, like a game or a movie, it’s the distillation of what’s interesting about life. You know it takes a year to shoot an action movie. And then that’s all distilled down into two or three hours. So, let me tell you, if you’ve seen an action movie being filmed it’s frigging … it’s boring. It’s super boring. It takes lots of takes because everything is on a green screen. Looks pretty goofy. Doesn’t look cool. But once you add the CGI and have great editing, it’s amazing.

Elon Musk:  So I think most likely if we’re a simulation it’s really boring outside the simulation. Because why would you make a simulation that’s boring? You’d make simulation way more interesting than base reality.

Joe Rogan:  This is if this right now is a simulation?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  And ultimately, inevitably, as long as we don’t die or get hit by a meteor, we’re going to create some sort of simulation if we continue on the same technological path we’re on right now. But we might not be there yet. So it might not be a simulation here? But it most likely is you feel other places?

Elon Musk:  This notion of place or where is a …

Joe Rogan:  Flawed?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  A flawed perception?

Elon Musk:  If you have that sort of Vive that’s made by Value, and HTC. It’s really Valve that did it. HTC did the hardware but it’s really a Valve thing.

Joe Rogan:  Makers of Half-Life.

Elon Musk:  Yes. Valve. Great company.

Joe Rogan:  Great company.

Elon Musk:  When you’re in that virtual reality, which is only going to get better, where are you? Where are you really?

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  You’re aren’t anywhere. You’re in the computer.

Joe Rogan:  What defines where you are?

Elon Musk:  Exactly. It’s your perception.

Joe Rogan:  Is it your perceptions or is it a scale that we have one your butt? You’re right here. I measured you. You’re the same weight as you were when you left. Meanwhile your experience is radically different.

Elon Musk:  Why do you think you are where you are right now? You might not be.

Joe Rogan:  I’ll spark up a joint if you keep talking. Your manager is going to come in here. We might have to lock the door.

Elon Musk:  Right now you think you’re in a studio in LA.

Joe Rogan:  That’s what I heard.

Elon Musk:  You might be in a computer.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, listen, man. I think about this all the time. Yeah. It’s unquestionable that one day that will be the case as long as we keep going. As long as nothing interrupts us. And if we start from scratch and we’re single celled organisms all over again. And then millions and millions of years later we become the next thing that is us, with creativity and the ability to change the environment. It’s going to keep monkeying with things until it figures out a way to change reality. To change … almost like punch a hole through what is this thing into what it wants it to be and create new things. And then those new things will intersect with other people’s new things. And it’ll be this ultimate pathway of infinite ideas and expression. All through technology.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  And then we’re going to wonder why are we here? What are we doing?

Elon Musk:  Let’s find out. I mean I think we should take the set of actions that are most likely to make the future better.

Joe Rogan:  Yes. Right. Right. Right.

Elon Musk:  And then reevaluate those actions to make sure that it’s true.

Joe Rogan:  Well, I think there’s a movement to that, I mean in terms of a social movement. I think some of it’s misguided and some of it’s exaggerated. And there’s a lot of people that are fighting for their side out there. But it seems like the general trend of social awareness seems to be much more heightened now than it’s ever been in any other time in history because of our ability to express ourselves instantaneously to each other, through Facebook or Twitter or what have you. And that the trend is to abandon preconceived notions, abandon prejudice, abandon discrimination, and promote kindness and happiness as much as possible.

Joe Rogan:  Look at this knife. Somebody gave it to me.

Elon Musk:  What is it?

Joe Rogan:  What the fuck did you do? Oh, my friend Donny. He brought this with him and it just stayed here. I have a real samurai sword if you want to play with that. I know you’re into weapons. That’s from the 1500s. Samurai sword at the end of the table.

Elon Musk:  Really? That’s cool.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. I’ll grab it. Hold on. Yeah. That’s a legit samurai sword from an actual samurai, from 1500s. If you pull out that blade. That blade was made the old way, where a master craftsman …

Elon Musk:  Folded metal?

Joe Rogan:  … folded that metal and hammered it down over and over again over a long period of time, and honed that blade into what it is now. What’s crazy is that more than 500 years later that thing is still pristine. Whoever took care of that and passed it down to the next person who took care of it, until it got to the podcast room. It’s pretty fucking crazy.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  One day someone is going to be looking at a Tesla like that. These fucking back doors, they pop off sideways. Like a Lamborghini.

Elon Musk:  You should see what the Tesla can do. I’ll show you afterwards.

Joe Rogan:  I’ve driven one. I love them.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, but most people don’t know what it can do.

Joe Rogan:  In terms of like ludicrous mode? In terms of like driving super fast and irresponsibly on public roads? Is that what you’re saying?

Elon Musk:  Oh, any car can do that.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. What can it do that I need to know about?

Elon Musk:  The Model X can do this like ballet thing to the Trans Siberian Orchestra. It’s pretty cool.

Joe Rogan:  Where it dances?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Legitimately? Like moves around da da da?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Why would you program that into a car?

Elon Musk:  Seemed like fun.

Joe Rogan:  That’s what I get about you. That’s what’s weird. Like when you showed up here you were all smiles, and you pull out a fucking blow torch and not a blow torch, but I’m like, “Look at this dude.”

Elon Musk:  Not a flamethrower.

Joe Rogan:  Now a flamethrower. I’m like, “He’s having fun.”

Elon Musk:  I want to be clear. It’s definitely not.

Joe Rogan:  You’re having fun. This thing. You program a car to do a ballet dance.

Elon Musk:  It’s great.

Joe Rogan:  You’re having fun. How do you have the time to do that. I don’t understand. While you’re digging holes under the earth, and sending rockets into space, and powering people in Australia, how the fuck do you have time to make the car dance ballet?

Elon Musk:  Well, in that case there were some engineers at Tesla that said, “What if we make this car dance and play music?” I was like, “That sounds great. Please do it. Let’s try to get it done in time for Christmas.” We did.

Joe Rogan:  Is there a concern about someone just losing their mind and making it do that on the highway?

Elon Musk:  No, it won’t do that.

Joe Rogan:  What if it’s in bumper to bumper traffic?

Elon Musk:  Nope.

Joe Rogan:  No, won’t do it.

Elon Musk:  Nope. Actually you have to … it’s an Easter egg.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, it’s an Easter egg.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. That’s why people don’t know about it, including people that have the car. It can do lots of things.

Joe Rogan:  Once Reddit gets a hold of it, everyone’s going to know.

Elon Musk:  If you search for it on the internet you will find out, but people don’t know that they should even search for it.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, well, they do now.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Yes.

Elon Musk:  There are so many things about the Model X, and the Model S, and the Model 3, that people don’t know about. We should probably do a video or something to explain it because I have close friends of mine and I say, “Do you know the car can do this?” And they’re like, “Nope”.

Joe Rogan:  Do you want to do a video though? Do you like the fact that some people don’t know?

Elon Musk:  No, I think it’s probably not … We should tell people.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, probably.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  That would help your product. I mean like it’s not like you don’t sell enough of them. You sell almost too many of them, right?

Elon Musk:  I mean I think a Tesla is the most fun thing you could possibly buy ever. That’s what it’s meant to be. Our goal is to make … It’s not exactly a car. It’s actually a thing to maximize enjoyment, make maximum fun.

Joe Rogan:  Okay. Electronic. Like big screen. Laptop. Ridiculous speed. Handling. All that stuff.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. And we’re going to put video games in it.

Joe Rogan:  You are?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  It that wise?

Elon Musk:  Well ….

Joe Rogan:  What kind of video games?

Elon Musk:  Well, you won’t be able to drive while you’re playing the video game. For example we were just putting the Atari Emulator, ROM emulator in it. So it will play Missile Command and Lunar Lander and a bunch of other things.

Joe Rogan:  Ooh, that sound cool.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. It’s pretty fun.

Joe Rogan:  I like that.

Elon Musk:  And we improved the interface of Missile Command because it’s too hard with the old track bulb. So there’s a touch screen version of Missile Command, so you have a chance.

Joe Rogan:  You have an old car, don’t you? Don’t you have an old Jaguar?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I do. ’61 series 1 E-Type Jaguar.

Joe Rogan:  I love cars.

Elon Musk:  It’s great.

Joe Rogan:  I love old cars.

Elon Musk:  The only two gasoline cars I have are that, and a Ford Model T that a friend of mine gave me. That’s my only two gasoline cars.

Joe Rogan:  Is the Ford Model T all stocked. Oh, there’s your car. Ooh, look at that.

Elon Musk:  I have the convertible.

Joe Rogan:  That is a glorious car.

Elon Musk:  Soft top.

Joe Rogan:  God that’s good-looking car.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Is that yours?

Elon Musk:  It’s not mine. It’s extremely close to mine. But I don’t have a front license plate on mine.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, it’s a beautiful car. They nailed that.

Elon Musk:  Mine looks like that.

Joe Rogan:  God, they nailed that.

Elon Musk:  That’s what mine looks like. Maybe that is mine.

Joe Rogan:  There’s certain iconic shapes. And there’s something about those cars, too. They’re not as capable, not nearly as capable as like a Tesla, but there’s something really satisfying about the mechanical aspect, of like feeling the steering, and the grinding of the gears, and the shifting. There’s something about those that’s extremely satisfying even though they’re not that competent. I have a l993 Porsche 964. It’s like a lightweight … It’s an RS America. It’s not very fast, not in comparison to a Tesla or anything like that. But thing about it is, it’s mechanical. You can feel everything. It gives you this weird thrill, like you’re on this clinky ride and there’s all this feedback. There’s something to that, right?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. My E-Type is basically no electronics.

Joe Rogan:  So you like that but you also like electronics?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Like your Tesla, it’s like that far end of electronics.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Drives itself.

Elon Musk:  It’s driving itself better every day. We’re about to release the software that will enable you to just turn in on and it will drive from highway on-ramp to highway exit, do lane changes, overtake other cars, go from one interchange to the next. If you get on, say the 405 and get off 300 miles later and go through several highway interchanges and just overtake other cars and hook into the nav system.

Joe Rogan:  And you’re just meditating. Om.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  While your car’s just traveling. Om.

Elon Musk:  It’s kind of eerie. It’s kind of eerie.

Joe Rogan:  What did you think when you saw that video of that dude falling asleep behind the wheel. I’m sure you’re seen it. The one in San Francisco. He’s like right outside of San Jose. Dude’s out cold, like this. And the car is in bumper to bumper traffic, moving along. You’ve seen it, right?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Yeah. We changed the software. That’s I think an old video. We changed the software where if you don’t touch the wheel it will gradually slow down and put the emergency lights on and wake you up.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, that’s hilarious. That’s hilarious. Can you choose what voice wakes you up?

Elon Musk:  Well, it sort of honks.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, it honks.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  You should be like, “Wake up, fuck face. You’re endangering your fellow humans.”

Elon Musk:  We could gently wake you up with a sultry voice.

Joe Rogan:  Ah, that would be good. Like something with a Southern accent. “Hey, wake up.”

Elon Musk:  “Wake up, sunshine.”

Joe Rogan:  “Hey, sweetie.”

Elon Musk:  Exactly.

Joe Rogan:  “Won’t you wake up?”

Elon Musk:  You could pick what you want.

Joe Rogan:  Like Siri. Yeah, I’d choose the Australian girl for Siri. I like her voice. It’s my favorite.

Elon Musk:  Do you want it seductive?

Joe Rogan:  I like Australian.

Elon Musk:  What flavor? So you want it to be angry? It could be anything.

Joe Rogan:  Do you want those Australian prison lady jeans. Now when you program something like that in, is this in response to a concern or is it your own … Do you look at it and go, “Hey, they shouldn’t just be able to fall asleep. Let’s wake them up.”

Elon Musk:  Yeah. It’s like, we were like, people are falling asleep, we’ve got to do something about that.

Joe Rogan:  Right, but when you first released it, you didn’t consider it, right? You’re just like, “No one’s going to just sleep.”

Elon Musk:  People fall asleep in cars all the time.

Joe Rogan:  All the time.

Elon Musk:  And crash. At least our car doesn’t crash. That’s better. It’s better not to crash. Imagine if that guy had fallen asleep in a gasoline car. They do it all the time.

Joe Rogan:  For sure.

Elon Musk:  And they would crash into somebody.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  In fact, the thing that really got me to … It was like, “Man, we’d better get autopilot going, get it out there” was a guy was in an early Tesla driving down the highway and he fell asleep. And he ran over a cyclist and killed him. It’s like, “Man, if we had autopilot, he might have fallen asleep, but he wouldn’t have run over that cyclist.”

PART 2 OF 5 ENDS [01:04:04]

Elon Musk:  … sleep, but at least he wouldn’t run over that cyclist.

Joe Rogan:  So how did you implement it? Like, did you just use cameras-

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  … programmed with the system, so that if it sees images, it slows down? And how much time do you … Is the person who’s in control of it allowed to program how fast it goes?

Elon Musk:  Yes. Yeah, you can program it to be more or less … like more conservative, or like more aggressive driver, and you can say what speed you want it to … what speed is okay.

Joe Rogan:  I know you have Ludicrous mode. Do you have douchebag mode?

Elon Musk:  Well, in-

Joe Rogan:  It just cuts people off.

Elon Musk:  Well, for lane changes, it’s tricky, because if you’re in like LA, unless you’re pretty aggressive, it’s hard to change lanes sometimes.

Joe Rogan:  It’s hard to be satnam. It’s hard to be namaste while out here in LA.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  If you want to hit that Santa Monica Boulevard off-ramp.

Elon Musk:  I mean, you got to be a little pushy.

Joe Rogan:  You got to be a little pushy, yeah, especially-

Elon Musk:  On the freeway.

Joe Rogan:  … when people are angry.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  People that are angry, they don’t want to let you in. They speed up.

Elon Musk:  Sometimes, you know, I think people overall are pretty nice on the highway, even in LA, but sometimes they’re not.

Joe Rogan:  Do you think the neural link will help that? Clink.

Elon Musk:  Probably.

Joe Rogan:  Everybody be locked in together, this hive mind.

Elon Musk:  Tunnels will help it. We won’t have traffic.

Joe Rogan:  That’ll help a lot.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  How many of those can you put in there?

Elon Musk:  Nice thing about tunnels-

Joe Rogan:  [crosstalk 01:05:29] for everybody?

Elon Musk:  Nice thing about tunnels is you can go 3D, so you can go many levels.

Joe Rogan:  Right, until you hit hell.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, but you could have 100 levels of tunnel, no problems.

Joe Rogan:  Jesus Christ. I don’t want to be on 99. Imagine being on the 99th, negative 99 floors? Hoo.

Elon Musk:  This is one of the fundamental things people don’t appreciate about tunnels, is it’s not like roads. The fundamental issue with roads is that you have a 2D transport system and a 3D living and workspace environment, so you’ve got all these tall buildings, or concentrated work environments, and then you want to go into this 2D transport system, which-

Joe Rogan:  Hugely inefficient.

Elon Musk:  … pretty low density, because cars are spaced out pretty far. So that obviously is not going to work. You’re going to have traffic, guaranteed. But if you can go 3D on your transport system, then you can solve all traffic. You can either go 3D up, with a flying car, or you can go 3D down with tunnels. You can have as many tunnel levels as you want, and you can arbitrarily relieve any amount of traffic. You can go further down with tunnels than you can go up with buildings. You can go 10,000 feet down if you want. I wouldn’t recommend it, but-

Joe Rogan:  What was that movie with what’s his face, with Bradley … Not Bradley Cooper. No, what the fuck’s his name? Batman. Who was Batman?

Jamie:        Christian Bale?

Joe Rogan:  Christian Bale, where they fought dragons, him and Matthew McConaughey. They went down deep into the Earth. How deep can you go-

Elon Musk:  I don’t think that was Batman.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, it was. It was-

Elon Musk:  Batman fought dragons underground?

Joe Rogan:  No, it wasn’t Batman, but it was Christian Bale.

Jamie:        Yeah, Reign of Fire.

Joe Rogan:  Reign of Fire.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  You never saw that?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  Terrible movie. Terrible movie, but good. Terrible but good at the same time.

Elon Musk:  I wouldn’t recommend drilling super far down. The Earth is a big-

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, but you get real deep, it gets hot, right?

Elon Musk:  … molten … We’re-

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  Earth is a giant ball of lava with a thin crust on the top, which we think of as like the surface, this thin crust, and it’s mostly just a big ball of lava. That’s Earth. But 10,000 feet’s not a big deal.

Joe Rogan:  Have you given any consideration whatsoever to the flat Earth movement?

Elon Musk:  I think that’s a troll situation.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, it’s not. No, it’s not. You would like to think that because you’re a super genius, but I, as a normal person, I know there’s people way dumber than me, and they really, really believe. They watch YouTube videos, which go on uninterrupted and spew out a bunch of fucking fake facts, very eloquently and articulately, and they really believe. These people really believe.

Elon Musk:  I mean, if it works for them, sure. Fine.

Joe Rogan:  It’s weird, though, right, that in this age, where there’s ludicrous mode in your car, goes 1.9 seconds zero to 60.

Elon Musk:  It’s 2.2.

Joe Rogan:  2.2? Which one’s 1.9? The Roadster?

Elon Musk:  The next-generation Roadster, standard edition.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. I’m on top of this shit.

Elon Musk:  That’s without-

Joe Rogan:  Standard edition?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, it’s without the performance package.

Joe Rogan:  What? Performance package?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  What the fuck do you need?

Elon Musk:  We’re going to put rocket thrusters on it.

Joe Rogan:  For real?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  What are they going to burn?

Elon Musk:  Nothing. Ultra high pressure compressed air.

Joe Rogan:  Whoa. Just air?

Elon Musk:  Cold gas thrusters.

Joe Rogan:  Now, do you have to have air tanks, or-

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  … are they sucking air out of … Okay.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, it’s an electric pump. Pump it up to like 10,000 PSI.

Joe Rogan:  And how fast are we talking, zero to 60?

Elon Musk:  How fast do you want to go?

Joe Rogan:  I want to go instantaneously.

Elon Musk:  We could make it just fly-

Joe Rogan:  I want to go back in time.

Elon Musk:  I could make it fly.

Joe Rogan:  You could make it fly?

Elon Musk:  Sure.

Joe Rogan:  Do you anticipate that as being … I mean, you were talking about the tunnels and then flying cars. Do you really think that’s going to be real?

Elon Musk:  It’s too noisy, and there’s too much airflow. So, the final issue with flying cars … I mean, if you get one of those toy drones, think of how much … how loud those are, and how much air they blow. Now imagine if that’s like 1,000 times heavier. It’s not going to make your neighbors happy. Your neighbors are not going to be happy if you land a flying car in your backyard.

Joe Rogan:  It would be very helicopter-like.

Elon Musk:  Or on your roof. They’re just really going to be like, “What the hell? That was annoying.”

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  You can’t even … If you want a flying car, just put some wheels on a helicopter.

Joe Rogan:  Is there a way around that? Like, what if they figure out some sort of magnetic technology, like all those Bob Lazar type characters were thinking, that was a part of the UFO technology they were doing at Area 51? Remember, didn’t they have some thoughts about magnetics?

Elon Musk:  Nope.

Joe Rogan:  No, bullshit?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Really?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, there’s a fundamental momentum exchange with the air. So you must … You must accelerate … You have a mass and you have gravitational acceleration, and mass times … Your mass times gravity must equal the mass of airflow times the acceleration of that airflow, to have a neutral force.

Joe Rogan:  So it’s impossible to get around-

Elon Musk:  MG equals MA, and then you won’t move. But if MG is greater than MA, you will go down. And if MA is greater than MG, you will go up. That’s how it works.

Joe Rogan:  There’s just no way around that?

Elon Musk:  There is definitely no way around it.

Joe Rogan:  There’s no way to create some sort of a magnetic something or another, that allows you to float?

Elon Musk:  Technically, yes. You could have a strong enough magnet, but that magnet would be so strong that you would create a lot of trouble.

Joe Rogan:  It would just suck cars up into your car? Just pick up axles and shit-

Elon Musk:  I mean, you’d have to repel off of either a material on the ground or in a really nutty situation, off of Earth’s gravitational field, and somehow make that incredibly light. But that magnet would cause so much destruction, you’d be better off with a helicopter.

Joe Rogan:  So, if there was some sort of magnet road, like you have two magnets, and they repel each other … If you had some sort of a magnet road that was below you, and you could travel on that magnet road, that would work?

Elon Musk:  Yes. Yes, you could have a magnet road.

Joe Rogan:  A magnet road. Is that too ridiculous?

Elon Musk:  No, it would work-

Joe Rogan:  Cement’s pretty ridiculous too, right?

Elon Musk:  You could do that. I would not recommend it.

Joe Rogan:  There’s a lot of things I don’t recommend. I don’t recommend smoking.

Elon Musk:  I would super not recommend that. Not wise, I think.

Joe Rogan:  No?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  Magnet roads?

Elon Musk:  No. No. No, definitely not. Definitely not. That would cause a lot of trouble.

Joe Rogan:  So you’ve put some time and consideration into this other than … You know, instead of … Like, my foolishly rendered thoughts. So you think that tunnels are the way to do it?

Elon Musk:  Oh, it’ll work for sure.

Joe Rogan:  That’ll work?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  And these tunnels that you’re building right now, these are basically just like test versions of this ultimate idea that you have?

Elon Musk:  You know, it’s just a hole in the ground.

Joe Rogan:  Right. We played videos of it, where the idea is that-

Elon Musk:  It’s just a hole in the ground.

Joe Rogan:  … you’re going to drop that hole in the ground. There’s a sled on it, and the sled goes very fast, like 100 miles an hour plus?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, you can go real fast. You can go fast as you want. And then if you want to go long distances, you can just draw the air out of the tunnel, make sure it’s real straight.

Joe Rogan:  Draw the air out of the tunnel?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, so a vacuum tunnel, because the … And then, depending on how fast you want to go, you could either use wheels or you could use air bearings, depending upon the ambient pressure in the tunnel, or you could maglev it, if you want to go super fast.

Joe Rogan:  So a magnet road?

Elon Musk:  Yes, but underground magnet roads-

Joe Rogan:  Underground magnet road.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, otherwise you’re going to really create a lot of trouble, because there’s metal things.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, so magnet roads is the way to go, just underground.

Elon Musk:  If you want to go really fast underground, you would be maglev in a vacuum tunnel.

Joe Rogan:  Mag in a vacuum tunnel-

Elon Musk:  Magnetic levitation in a in a vacuum tunnel-

Joe Rogan:  … with rocket launchers.

Elon Musk:  Pardon?

Joe Rogan:  With rocket launchers.

Elon Musk:  No, I would not recommend putting any-

Joe Rogan:  Come on, bro.

Elon Musk:  … exhaust gas in the tunnel.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, okay. I see what you’re saying, because then the air-

Elon Musk:  Because then you’d have to pump it out.

Joe Rogan:  … will be gone. Right, you’ll have to pump it out, and you probably have a limited amount of air in the first place. Like, how much can you breathe? Do you have to pump oxygen into these cubicles, or these tubes?

Elon Musk:  No, you’d have like a pressurized pod. It’d be like a little tiny, underground spaceship, basically.

Joe Rogan:  Like an airplane. Because you have air in the airplane. It’s not getting new air in.

Elon Musk:  It is.

Joe Rogan:  It is?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  They have like a little hole?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, they have a pump.

Joe Rogan:  Really?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  So it gets it from the outside?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Wow. I didn’t know that.

Elon Musk:  Airplanes have it easy, because essentially, they’re pretty leaky, but-

Joe Rogan:  Jesus.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, but as long as the air pump is working at a decent speed … They have backup pumps.

Joe Rogan:  Oh.

Elon Musk:  They’ll have like three pumps, or four pumps, or something, and then that … Then it exhausts through the outflow valve, and in through whatever seals are not sealing quite right. Usually the door doesn’t seal quite right on a plane, so there’s a bit of leakage around the door, but the pumps exceed the outflow rate, and then that sets the pressure in the cabin.

Joe Rogan:  Now, have you ever looked at planes and gone, “I could fix this. I just don’t have the time.”

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Too busy making-

Elon Musk:  I have a design for a plane.

Joe Rogan:  You do?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  A better design?

Elon Musk:  I mean, probably. I think it is, yes.

Joe Rogan:  Who have you talked to about this?

Elon Musk:  I’ve talked to friends.

Joe Rogan:  Friends?

Elon Musk:  Friends, and-

Joe Rogan:  I’m your friend.

Elon Musk:  … girlfriends, and-

Joe Rogan:  You could tell me. What do you got? What’s going on?

Elon Musk:  Well, I mean the exciting thing to do would be some sort of electric, vertical takeoff and landing, supersonic jet of some kind.

Joe Rogan:  Vertical takeoff and landing meaning no need for a runway, just shoot up straight in the air, and …

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Ooh. How would you do that? I mean, they do that on some military aircraft, correct?

Elon Musk:  Yes. The trick is that you have to transition to level flight, and then you … The thing that you would use for vertical takeoff and landing is not suitable for high speed flight.

Joe Rogan:  So you have two different systems? Vertical takeoff-

Elon Musk:  I’ve thought about this quite a lot.

Joe Rogan:  … and landing system-

Elon Musk:  I’ve thought about this quite a lot.

Joe Rogan:  Okay.

Elon Musk:  The interesting thing about an electric plane is that you want to go as high as possible, but you need a certain energy density in the battery pack, because you have to overcome gravitational potential energy. Once you’ve overcome gravitational potential energy and you’re at a high altitude, the energy you use in cruise is very low, and then you can recapture a large part of the gravitational potential energy on the way down. So you really don’t need any kind of reserve fuel, if you will, because you have the energy of height, gravitational potential energy. This is a lot of energy.

Elon Musk:  So, once you can get high … Like, the way to think about a plane is it’s a force balance. So it’s a force balance. So, a plane that is not accelerating is a neutral force balance. You have the force of gravity, you have the lift force of the wings, then you’ve got the force of the whatever thrusting device, the propeller, or turbine, or whatever it is, and you’ve got the resistance force of the air.

Elon Musk:  Now, the higher you go, the lower the air resistance is. Air density drops exponentially, but drag increases with the square, and exponential beats a square. The higher you go, the faster you will go for the same amount of energy, and at a certain altitude, you can go supersonic with less energy per mile, quite a lot less energy per mile, than an aircraft at 35,000 feet, because it’s just a force balance.

Joe Rogan:  I’m too stupid for this conversation.

Elon Musk:  It makes sense, though.

Joe Rogan:  No, I’m sure it does. Now, when you think about this new idea of designing … When you have this idea about improving planes, are you going to bring this to somebody? Are you just … Chuck this around?

Elon Musk:  Well, I have a lot on my plate.

Joe Rogan:  Right. That’s what I’m saying. I don’t know how you do what you do now, but if you keep coming up with these … But it’s got to be hard to pawn these off on someone else either, like, “Hey, go do a good job with this vertical takeoff and landing system that I want to implement to regular planes.”

Elon Musk:  The electric airplane isn’t necessary right now. Electric cars are important.

Joe Rogan:  We need some sort of-

Elon Musk:  Solar energy is important. Stationary storage of energy is important. These things are much more important than creating electric supersonic VTOL. Also, the planes naturally … You really want that gravitational energy density for an aircraft, and this is improving over time. So, you know, it’s important that we accelerate the transition to sustainable energy. That’s why electric cars … It matters whether electric cars happen sooner or later.

Elon Musk:  You know, we’re really playing a crazy game here with the atmosphere and the oceans. We’re taking vast amount of carbon from deep underground and putting this in the atmosphere. This is crazy. We should not do this. It’s very dangerous. So we should accelerate the transition to sustainable energy. I mean, the bizarre thing is that obviously, we’re going to run out of oil in the long term. You know, there’s only so much oil we can mine and burn. It’s tautological. We must have a sustainable energy transport and energy infrastructure in the long term. So we know that’s the endpoint.

Elon Musk:  We know that. So why run this crazy experiment, where we take trillions of tons of carbon from underground, and put it in the atmosphere and oceans? This is an insane experiment. It’s the dumbest experiment in human history. Why are we doing this? It’s crazy.

Joe Rogan:  Do you think this is a product of momentum, that we started off doing this when it was just a few engines, a few hundred million gallons of fuel over the whole world, not that big of a deal, and then slowly but surely, over a century, it got out of control, and now it’s not just our fuel, but it’s also … I mean, fossil fuels are involved in so many different electronics, so many different items that people die. There’s just this constant desire for fossil fuels, constant need for oil, without consideration of the sustainability.

Elon Musk:  You know, the thing is, like oil, oil, coal, gas, that’s the easy money. It’s the easy money.

Joe Rogan:  Have you heard about clean coal? The president’s been tweeting about it. It’s got to be real. Clean coal, all caps. Did you see? He used all caps. Clean coal.

Elon Musk:  Well, you know, it’s very difficult to put that CO2 back in the ground. It doesn’t like being in solid form, takes a lot of energy-

Joe Rogan:  Have you thought about something like that? Like, some sort of a filter, giant building-sized filter, sucks carbon out of the atmosphere? Is that possible?

Elon Musk:  No, it’s not possible.

Joe Rogan:  No?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  No.

Elon Musk:  Nope, definitely not.

Joe Rogan:  So we’re fucked.

Elon Musk:  No, we’re not fucked. I mean, this is quite a complex question. You know, we’re really just … The more carbon we take out of the ground and add to the atmosphere, and a lot of it gets permeated into the oceans, the more dangerous it is. Like, I don’t think right now … I think we’re okay right now. We can probably even add some more, but the momentum towards sustainable energy is too slow. Like, there’s a vast base of industry, vast transportation system … Like, there’s two-and-a-half billion cars and trucks in the world. And the new car and truck production, if it was 100% electric, that’s only about 100 million per year, so it would take … If you could snap your fingers and instantly turn all cars and trucks electric, it would still take 25 years to change the transport base to electric. Makes sense, because how long does a car or truck last before it goes into the junkyard and gets crushed? About 20 to 25 years.

Joe Rogan:  Is there a way to accelerate that process, like some sort of subsidies, or some encouragement from the government, financially?

Elon Musk:  Well, the thing that is going on right now is that there is an inherent subsidy in any oil-burning device, any power plant or car, is fundamentally consuming the carbon capacity of the oceans and atmosphere. I’ll just say atmosphere for shirt. So, you can say like, “Okay, there’s a certain probability of something bad happening past a certain carbon concentration in the atmosphere,” so there’s some uncertain number where if we put too much carbon in the atmosphere, things overheat, oceans warm up, ice caps melt, ocean real estate becomes a lot less valuable, you know, everything’s under water.

Elon Musk:  But it’s not clear what that number is, but it’s definitely … The scientists would all … It’s really quite … The scientific consensus is overwhelming. Overwhelming. I mean, I don’t know any serious scientist, actually zero, literally zero, who don’t think that we have quite a serious climate risk that we’re facing. So, there’s fundamentally a subsidy occurring with every fossil fuel burning thing, power plants, aircraft, car, frankly even rockets. I mean, rockets use a … They burn fuel, but with rockets, there’s just no other way to get to orbit, unfortunately, so it’s the only way.

Elon Musk:  But with cars, there’s definitely a better way, with electric cars, and to generate the issue, do so with photovoltaics, because we’ve got a giant thermonuclear reactor in the sky, called the sun. It’s great. It sort of shows up every day, very reliable. So if you can generate energy from solar panels, store it with batteries, you could have energy 24 hours a day. And then you can send it to the poles, or near, to the north, with high voltage lines. Also, northern parts of the world tend to have a lot of hydro power as well.

Elon Musk:  Anyway, all fossil fuel powered things have an inherent subsidy, which is their consumption of the carbon capacity of the atmosphere, and oceans. So, people tend to think like, “Why should electric vehicles have a subsidy?” But they’re not taking into account that all fossil fuel burning vehicles fundamentally are subsidized by the environmental cost to Earth. But nobody’s paying for it. We are going to pay for it, obviously. In the future, we will pay for it. It’s just not paid for now.

Joe Rogan:  Now, what is the bottleneck in regards to electric cars, and trucks, and things like that? Is it battery capacity?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, we’ve got to scale up production, got to make the car compelling, make it better than gasoline or diesel cars.

Joe Rogan:  Make it more efficient in terms of like the distance it can travel without refueling.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, got to be able to go far enough, recharge fast-

Joe Rogan:  And your Roadster, you’re anticipating 600 miles? Is that correct?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Yeah, we-

Joe Rogan:  What does that-

Elon Musk:  Yeah, 600 mile range.

Joe Rogan:  Is that right now? Like, have you driven one 600 miles now?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, we could totally make one right now that would do 600 miles, but the thing is, it’s too expensive. Like, the car’s got to-

Joe Rogan:  How much more so?

Elon Musk:  Well, you know, it’ll just have a 200 kilowatt hour battery pack, and you can go 600 miles, as long as-

Joe Rogan:  Like, versus what do you have now?

Elon Musk:  330 mile range, but that’s plenty for most people.

Joe Rogan:  330 mile range, and what is that in terms of kilowatts?

Elon Musk:  Well, that would be for a Model S, 100 kilowatt hour pack will do about 330 miles, maybe 335. Some people have hyper-miled it to 500 miles.

Joe Rogan:  Hyper-miled it? What does that mean?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, just like go-

Joe Rogan:  45 miles an hour or something?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, like 30 miles an hour or something. It’s like on level ground, with you pump the tires up really well and go on a smooth surface, and you can go for a long time. But you could definitely comfortably do 300 miles.

Joe Rogan:  Is there-

Elon Musk:  This is fine for most people. Usually, 200 or 250 miles is fine. 300 miles is you don’t even think about it, really.

Joe Rogan:  Is there any possibility that you could use solar power, that solar powered, one day … Especially in Los Angeles. I mean, as you said about that giant nuclear reactor a million times bigger than Earth just floating in the sky, is it possible that one day, you’ll be able to just power all these cars, just on solar power? I mean, we don’t ever have cloudy days. If we do, there’s three of them.

Elon Musk:  Well, the surface area of a car is … Without making the car really blocky, or having some-

Joe Rogan:  Like a G-Wagon?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, and just like having a lot of surface area, where maybe solar panels fold out or something-

Joe Rogan:  Like your E Class. That’s what we need-

Elon Musk:  The E-Type?

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, the Jaguar E-Type, with the giant long hood. That could be a giant solar panel.

Elon Musk:  Well, at the beginning of Tesla, I did want to have this unfolding solar panel thing, that you’d press a button and it’d just unfold these solar panels and recharge your car in the parking lot.

Joe Rogan:  Ah.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, we could do that, but I think it’s probably better to just put that on your roof.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  And then it’s going to just be facing the sun all the time, because like-

Joe Rogan:  What car had that on the roof?

Elon Musk:  Otherwise, your car could be in the shade. You know, it could be in the shade, could be in a garage, or something like that.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Didn’t a Fisker have that on the roof? The Fisker Karma new generation for … I believe it was only for the radio? Was that correct?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. I mean, I think it could recharge like two miles a day or something like-

Joe Rogan:  Did you laugh when they started blowing up when they got hit with water? Do you remember what happened?

Elon Musk:  They got … What?

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, they had a dealership, or-

Elon Musk:  Oh, yeah.

Joe Rogan:  The Fisker Karmas were parked-

Elon Musk:  Was that like with the flood in Jersey?

Joe Rogan:  Yes, yes. When the hurricane came in, they got overwhelmed with water and they all started exploding. There’s fucking great video of it. Did you watch the video?

Elon Musk:  I didn’t watch the video, but I did see-

Joe Rogan:  Oh, if I was you-

Elon Musk:  I saw a picture of the aftermath.

Joe Rogan:  … I would be naked, lubed up, watch that video, laughing my ass off. They all blow up. They got wet and they blew up. That’s not good.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, we made our battery waterproof so that doesn’t happen.

Joe Rogan:  Smart move.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, there’s a guy in Kazakhstan, that … I think it was Kazakhstan, that he just boated through a tunnel, underwater tunnel, like a flooded tunnel, and just turned the wheels to steer, and pressed the accelerator, and it just floated through the tunnel, and he steered around the other cars. Like-

Joe Rogan:  That’s amazing.

Elon Musk:  It’s on the internet.

Joe Rogan:  What happens if your car gets a little sideways? Like, if you were driving in snow. Like, what if your autopilot is on and you’re in like Denver, and it snows out, and your car gets a little sideways? Does it correct itself?

Elon Musk:  Oh, yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Does it know how to-

Elon Musk:  It’s got great traction control.

Joe Rogan:  But does it know how to, like, correct?

Elon Musk:  Oh, yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Do you know how like when your ass-end kicks out-

Elon Musk:  Sure.

Joe Rogan:  … you know how to counter-steer?

Elon Musk:  Oh, yeah. No, it’s really good.

Joe Rogan:  It knows how to do it?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Whoa.

Elon Musk:  It’s pretty crazy.

Joe Rogan:  That’s pretty crazy.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  So like if you’re going sideways, it knows how to correct itself?

Elon Musk:  It generally won’t go sideways.

Joe Rogan:  It won’t?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  Why not?

Elon Musk:  It will correct itself before it goes sideways.

Joe Rogan:  Even in black ice?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, there’s videos where you could see the car be-

Joe Rogan:  That alone.

Elon Musk:  Traction control system is very good. It makes you feel like superman. It’s great. You feel like you can … It will make you feel like this incredible driver.

Joe Rogan:  I believe it.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Now how do you program that?

Elon Musk:  We do our testing on like an ice like in Sweden.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, really?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, in like Norway, and Canada, and a few other places.

Joe Rogan:  Porsche does a lot of that too.

Elon Musk:  New Zealand as well.

Joe Rogan:  They do a lot of their … They do some of their driver training school on these frozen surfaces, so you’re just … The car’s going sideways whether you like it or not, and you have to learn how to slide into corners, and how to adjust.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Well, electric cars have really great traction control, because the reaction time is so fast. So, with a gasoline car, you’ve got a lot of latency. It takes a while for the engine to react and for the … But for electric motors, incredibly precise. That’s why you can imagine … Like, if you had a printer or something, you wouldn’t have a gasoline engine printer. That would be pretty weird, or like a surgical device. It’s going to be an electric motor on the surgical device, on the printer. Gasoline engine’s going to be just chugging away. It’s not going to have the reaction time.

Elon Musk:  But to an electric motor, it’s operating at the millisecond level, so it can turn on and off traction, within like inches of getting on the … Like, let’s say drive over a patch of ice. It’ll turn traction off and then turn it on a couple of inches, right after the ice. Like, with a little patch of ice, because in the frame of the electric motor, you’re moving incredibly slowly. You’re a snail. You’re just moving so slowly, because it can see at 1,000 frames a second. So it’s like say one Mississippi. It just thought about things 1,000 times.

Joe Rogan:  So it’s realized that your wheels are not getting traction, it understands there’s some slippery surface that you’re driving on, and it makes adjustments in real time.

Elon Musk:  Yes. In milliseconds.

Joe Rogan:  That would be so much safer than a regular car.

Elon Musk:  Yes, it is.

Joe Rogan:  Just that alone, for loved ones, you’d want them to be driving your car.

Elon Musk:  Yes, the-

Joe Rogan:  I’m on board. Fuck motors. Dude, fuck regular motors.

Elon Musk:  The S, X, and 3 have the lowest probability of injury of any cars ever tested by the US government.

Joe Rogan:  Whoa.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, but it’s pretty crazy. You know, people still sue us. Like, they’ll have some accident at 60 miles an hour, where they just twisted an ankle, and they sue … Like, they would be dead in another car. They still sue us.

Joe Rogan:  But that’s to be expected, isn’t it?

Elon Musk:  I guess to be expected.

Joe Rogan:  Do you take that into account with like the same sort of fatalistic undertones, just sort of go, “Eh, you got to just let it go. This is what people do.”

Elon Musk:  I’ll tell you, I’ve got a-

Joe Rogan:  It is what it is.

Elon Musk:  … quite a lot of respect for the justice system. Judges are very smart, and they see … So far, I’ve found judges to be very good at justice, because like, what … And juries are good too. Like, they’re actually quite good. You know, people … You know, you read about occasional errors in the justice system. Let me tell you, most of the time, they’re very good.

Joe Rogan:  I think-

Elon Musk:  And you know, the guy I mentioned, that fell asleep in the car, and he road over a cyclist, and that was what encouraged me to get autopilot out as soon as possible, that guy sued us.

Joe Rogan:  He sued you, for falling asleep?

Elon Musk:  Yes, he … I’m not kidding. He blamed it on the new car smell.

Joe Rogan:  What?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  He blamed him falling asleep on your new car smell. There’s somewhere there’s a lawyer-

Elon Musk:  This is a real thing that happened.

Joe Rogan:  Somewhere there’s a lawyer that thought that through in front of his laptop before he wrote that up.

Elon Musk:  Yes. He got a lawyer, and he sued us, and the judge was like, “This is crazy. Stop bothering me. No.”

Joe Rogan:  Thank god.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Thank god. Thank god there’s a judge out there with a brain.

Elon Musk:  I’ll tell you, judges are very good.

Joe Rogan:  Some of them. What about that judge that sent those boys up the river in Pennsylvania, who was selling those kids out? You know about that story?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, judge was selling young boys to prisons. He was-

Elon Musk:  What?

Joe Rogan:  Like literally, yeah. Literally under bribes for … He was-

Elon Musk:  Was this an elected judge or-

Joe Rogan:  He was-

Elon Musk:  Because some places, you have a judge that’s actually a politician.

Joe Rogan:  No, he was an elected judge. This is a very famous story. He-

PART 3 OF 5 ENDS [01:36:04]

Joe Rogan:  No. He was an elected judge. This is a very famous story.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  He’s in jail right now, I think for the rest of his life. And he put away … He would take a young boy would so something like steal something from a store and he would put them in detention for five years. Something ridiculously egregious. And they investigated his history and they found out that he was literally being paid off. Was it by private prisons? Is that what the deal was? There was some sort of … But anyway, this judge is-

Joe Rogan:  Two judges.

Joe Rogan:  Two judges?

Joe Rogan:  Two judges. Kids for cash scandal is what it’s called. 2008, yeah. Common please judges, so I think they are elected.

Joe Rogan:  And who was paying them?

Joe Rogan:  Oh …

Joe Rogan:  Someone … It was proven to the point where they’re in jail now.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  That someone was paying them to put more asses in the seats in these private prisons.

Joe Rogan:  A million dollar payment to put them in the youth centers builder [crosstalk 01:36:58]-

Joe Rogan:  A million dollar payment?

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  I do think it’s this private prisons’ thing is creating a bad incentive.

Joe Rogan:  It’s dark. Right.

Elon Musk:  Yes, but that judge is in prison.

Joe Rogan:  Thank God.

Elon Musk:  Yes, but for people who think perhaps the justice system consists entirely of judges like that, I want to assure you this is not the case. The vast majority of judges are very good.

Joe Rogan:  I agree.

Elon Musk:  And they care about justice, and they could have made a lot more money if they wanted to be a trial lawyer, and instead they cared about justice and they made less money because they care about justice. And that’s why they’re judges.

Joe Rogan:  I feel that same way about police officers.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  I feel like there’s so many interactions with so many different people with police officers that the very few that stand out that are horrific, we tend to look at that like this is evidence that police are all corrupt, and I think that’s crazy.

Elon Musk:  Most police are very honest.

Joe Rogan:  Yes.

Elon Musk:  And military personnel that I know are very honorable, ethical people and much more honorable and ethical than the average person. That’s my impression.

Joe Rogan:  I agree. That is my impression as well.

Elon Musk:  And that’s not to suggest we be complacent and assume everyone’s honest and ethical. And obviously if somebody is given a trusted place in society such as being a police officer or a judge and they are corrupt then we must be extra vigilant against such situations, and take action. But we should not think that this is somehow broadly descriptive of people in that profession.

Joe Rogan:  I could agree more. I think there’s also an issue with one of the things that happens with police officers, prosecutors, and anyone that’s trying to convict someone or arrest someone is that it becomes a game, an end game people want to win. And sometimes people cheat.

Elon Musk:  Yes. Yes. If you’re a prosecutor you should not always want to win. There are times when you should like okay, I just should not want to win this case and then just pass on that case. Sometimes people want to win too much, that is true. I think also it becomes tough. If you’re a district attorney you tend to see a lot of criminals, and then your view of the world can get negatively … have a negative … you can have a negative view of the world because you’re just interacting with a lot of criminals. But actually most of society does not consist of criminals. And I actually had this conversation at dinner several years ago with a district attorney. I was like, “Man, it must sometimes seem pretty dark because, man, there’s some terrible human beings out there.” And he was like, “Yep.” He was dealing with some case which consisted of a couple of old ladies that would run people over somehow for insurance money. And it was rough. I was like, “Wow, that’s pretty rough.”

Elon Musk:  It’s hard to maintain faith in humanity if you’re a district attorney, but you know, it’s only a few percent of society that are actually bad. And then if you go to the worst .1% of society, or the worst one in 1,000 to one in one million … How bad is the millionth worst person in the United States? Pretty damn bad, damn evil. The millionth … One in one million of evil is so evil people could not even conceive of it. But there’s 330 million in the United States, so that’s 330 people out there somewhere. By the same token, there’s also 330 who are incredible angels and unbelievable good human beings.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  On the other side.

Joe Rogan:  But because of our fear of danger, we tend to … our thought tend to gravitate towards the worst case scenario.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  And we want to frame that. And it’s one of the real problem with prejudice, whether it’s prejudice towards different minorities or prejudice towards police officers, or anything, we want to look at the worse case scenario and say, “This is an example of what this is all about.” And you see that even with people who the frame genders. Some men frame women like that. They get ripped of by a few women and they decide all women are evil. Some women get fucked over by a few men, all men are shit. And this is very toxic.

Elon Musk:  It is.

Joe Rogan:  And it’s also a very unbalanced way to viewing the world and it’s very emotionally based, and it’s based on your own experience, your own anecdotal experience. And it can be very influential to the people around you, and it’s just a dangerous way … it’s a dangerous thought process and pattern to promote.

Elon Musk:  It is. It is a very dangerous pattern. I really think people should give other people the benefit of the doubt and assume that they’re good until proven otherwise. And I think really, most people are actually pretty good people. Nobody’s perfect.

Joe Rogan:  They have to be. If you think the vast numbers of us that are just interacting with each other constantly, we have to be better than we think we are.

Elon Musk:  Yes, I [crosstalk 01:42:13]

Joe Rogan:  There’s no other way.

Elon Musk:  Here are all these weapons, but how many times … Nobody’s presumably tried to murder you in your [crosstalk 01:42:18]-

Joe Rogan:  Nobody yet.

Elon Musk:  Yes, nobody’s put this rifle [crosstalk 01:42:20]. The swords right there.

Joe Rogan:  Now there’s fucking fake flame thrower here, not a flame thrower. Now we’ve got a real problem. I’m going to put it on that side, too. I’m going to leave it for the guests. I’m like, look man, if I say something that fucked up it’s right there.

Elon Musk:  It’ll liven things up for sure. It guaranteed to make any party better.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. Well, that’s the armed civilization theory that an armed community is a safe and polite community. You ever been in Texas? It’s kind of true.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  People in Texas are super polite and everyone’s got a gun.

Elon Musk:  Yes. Don’t make somebody angry. Don’t know what’s going to happen.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, it’s not a good move. Piss people off and everybody can have a gun. You’re better off to just let that guy get in your lane.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. yeah. We got a big test site in central Texas.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, yeah?

Elon Musk:  In Waco.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, beautiful.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, SpaceX in McGregor. It’s about 15 minutes away from Waco.

Joe Rogan:  That’s close to where Ted Nugent lives.

Elon Musk:  It is?

Joe Rogan:  Shout out to Ted Nugent.

Elon Musk:  Okay, cool. Yeah, we have lots of fire and loud explosions and things.

Joe Rogan:  I bet.

Elon Musk:  And people, they’re cool with it.

Joe Rogan:  They don’t give a fuck out there.

Elon Musk:  They are very supportive.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, you can buy fireworks where your kids go to school.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. It’s dangerous.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, but it’s free.

Elon Musk:  It’s free.

Joe Rogan:  There’s something about [crosstalk 01:43:44] Texas that’s very enticing because of that. It is dangerous, but it’s also free.

Elon Musk:  Right. Yeah, I like Texas actually.

Joe Rogan:  Well, I prefer it over places that are more restrictive, but more liberal because you could always be liberal. Just because things are free and just because you have a certain amount of right wing type characters it doesn’t mean you have to be that way.

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  And honestly, there’s a lot of those people that are pretty fucking open minded and let you do whatever you want to do.

Elon Musk:  Right.

Joe Rogan:  As long as you don’t bother them.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, exactly.

Joe Rogan:  That’s my whole … Right now with the way we’re able to communicate with each other today and how radically different it is than generations past is that we all just … the dust settles and we all realize, like what you were saying that most people are good.

Elon Musk:  Most people are good.

Joe Rogan:  The vast majority.

Elon Musk:  Yes. I think you should give people the benefit of the doubt for sure.

Joe Rogan:  I think you’re right. You know what could help that? Mushrooms.

Elon Musk:  Mushrooms.

Joe Rogan:  Don’t you think?

Elon Musk:  They’re delicious.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, right. They’re good for you, too. All of them. All kinds of them. What do you see in terms of when you think about the future of your companies, what do you see as bottle necks? Want some more of these?

Elon Musk:  Sure. Thank you.

Joe Rogan:  What do you see in terms of bottle necks of things that are holding back innovation? Is it regulatory commissions and people that don’t understand the technology that are influencing policy? What could potentially be holding you guys back right now? Is there anything that you would change?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. That’s a good question. I wish politicians were better at science. That would help a lot.

Joe Rogan:  That’s a problem.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  There’s no incentive for them to be good at science.

Elon Musk:  There isn’t. Actually, they’re pretty good at science in China, I have to say.

Joe Rogan:  Are they?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. The mayor of Beijing has, I believe, an environmental engineering degree, and the deputy major has a physics degree. I met them. Shanghai is really smart.

Joe Rogan:  You’re up on technology. What do you think about this government policy of stopping use of Wall Way phones and there something about the worry about spying. From what I understand from real tech people, they think it’s horse shit. Like phones.

Elon Musk:  I don’t know. I don’t know.

Joe Rogan:  The government said don’t buy Wall Way phones. Are you up on that at all? No? Should we just abandon this idea?

Elon Musk:  I guess if you have top secret stuff then you want to be pretty careful about what hardware you use, but most people do not have top secret stuff. Nobody really cares what porn you watch. Nobody actually cares.

Joe Rogan:  And if they that’s on them.

Elon Musk:  National spy agencies do not care, do not give a rat’s ass what porn you watch. They do not care. So, what secrets does a national spy agency gave to learn from the average citizen? Nothing.

Joe Rogan:  That’s the argument against the narrative and the argument by a lot of these tech people is that the real concern is that these companies like Wall Way are innovating at a radical pace. And they’re trying to stop them from integrating into our culture and letting this … Right now they’re the number two cell phone manufacturer in the world. Samsung’s number one, Wall Way’s number two, Apple is now number three. They surpassed Apple as number two. And the idea is that this is all taking place without them having any foothold whatsoever in American. There’s no carriers that have their phones. You have to buy their phones unlocked through some third party, and then put … The worry is that these are somehow or another controlled by the Chinese government. The Communist Chinese government is going to distribute these phones. And I don’t know if it’s the worry is economic influence, or that they’re have too much power. I don’t know what it is. Are you paying attention at all at any of this?

Elon Musk:  Not really.

Joe Rogan:  No.

Elon Musk:  I don’t think we should worry too much about Wall Way phones. Maybe our national security agencies shouldn’t have Wall Way phones. Maybe that’s a question mark, but I think for the average citizen it doesn’t matter. Pretty sure the Chinese government does not care about the goings on of the average American citizen.

Joe Rogan:  Is there a time where you think that there will be no security? Will be impossible to hold back information? That whatever bottleneck will let go. We’re going to give in. That whatever bottleneck between privacy and ultimate innovation will have to be bridged in order for us to achieve the next level of technological proficiency that we’re just going to abandon it. And they’ll be no security. No privacy.

Elon Musk:  Do people want privacy? ‘Cause they seem to put everything on the internet-

Joe Rogan:  Well, right now-

Elon Musk:  … practically.

Joe Rogan:  … they’re confused, but when you’re talking about your neuro link and this idea that one day we are going to be able to share information, we’re going to be some sort of a thing that’s symbiotically connected.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I think we really need to worry about security in that situation for sure.

Joe Rogan:  And when-

Elon Musk:  That’s a security paramount.

Joe Rogan:  Sure. But also what we will be is we’ll be so much different. Our concerns about money, about status, about … All these things will seemingly go by the wayside if we really become enlightened. If we really become artificially enlightened by some an AI interface where we have this symbiotic relationship with some new internet type connection to information what happens then? What is important and what is not important? Is privacy important when we’re all gods?

Elon Musk:  I think with things that we think are important to keep private right now we probably will not think are important-

Joe Rogan:  Shame, right? Information, right? What are you hiding? Emotions? What are we hiding?

Elon Musk:  I think … I don’t know. Maybe it’s embarrassing stuff.

Joe Rogan:  Right, embarrassing stuff.

Elon Musk:  But there’s actually … I think people … There’s not that much that’s kept private that is actually relevant that other people would actually care about. You think other people care about it, but they don’t really care about it, and certainly governments don’t.

Joe Rogan:  Well, some people care about it, but then it gets weird when it gets exposed. Like Jennifer Lawrence when those naked pictures of her got exposed. I think in some ways people liked her more.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  They realized well, she’s just a person that’s just a girl who likes sex, and is just alive and has a boyfriend, and sends him messages, and now you get to look into it. You probably shouldn’t have, but somebody let it go, and they put it online. and they’re, “All right.”

Elon Musk:  She seems to be doing okay.

Joe Rogan:  She’s a person. She’s just you, and me, and it’s the same thing. She’s just in some weird place where she’s on a 35 foot tall screen with music playing every time she talks.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. I’m sure she’s not happy about-

Joe Rogan:  No, she’s fine.

Elon Musk:  … it.

Joe Rogan:  No.

Elon Musk:  But she’s clearly doing fine.

Joe Rogan:  But once this interface is fully realized where we really do become something far more powerful in terms of our cognitive ability, or our ability to understand irrational thoughts and mitigate them, and that we’re all connected in some insane way, what are our thoughts on wealth, our thoughts on social status? How many of those just evaporate in our need for privacy? Maybe our need for privacy will be the ultimate bottleneck that we’ll have to surpass.

Elon Musk:  I think the things that we think are important now will probably not be important in the future. But there will be things that are important, there just are different things.

Joe Rogan:  What would be more important?

Elon Musk:  There might be some of ideas potentially. I don’t think Darwin’s going away.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  Darwin’s going to be there. Darwin will be there forever.

Joe Rogan:  Forever, yeah.

Elon Musk:  It would just be a different arena. A different arena.

Joe Rogan:  A digital arena.

Elon Musk:  Different arena. Darwin’s not going away.

Joe Rogan:  What keep you up at night?

Elon Musk:  Well, it’s quite hard to run companies, especially car companies, I should say. It’s quite challenging.

Joe Rogan:  The car business is the hardest one of all the things you do?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Because it’s a consumer oriented business as opposed to SpaceX?

Elon Musk:  Not that SpaceX … SpaceX is no walk in the park, but a car company, it’s very difficult to keep a car company alive. It’s very difficult. There’s only two car companies in the history of American car companies that haven’t gone bankrupt and that’s Ford and Tesla. That’s it.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, Ford rode out that crazy storm, huh? They’re the only ones.

Elon Musk:  By the skin of their teeth.

Joe Rogan:  Shout out to the mustang. Yeah, by the skin of their teeth. That is interesting, right?

Elon Musk:  Same with Tesla. We barely survived.

Joe Rogan:  How close did you get to folding?

Elon Musk:  Very close. We … 2008 is not a good a time to be a car company, especially a startup car company, and especially an electric car company. That was stupidity squared.

Joe Rogan:  And this is when you had those cool roadsters with the T-top.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  With the target top?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. We had … It was a highly modified [inaudible 01:54:10] Chasity. The body was all completely different. By the way, it was super dumb strategy that we actually did because we-

Joe Rogan:  Why was it dumb?

Elon Musk:  It was based on two false premises. One false premise was that’s we’d be able to cheaply convert the lotus least and use that as a car platform, and that we would be able to use technology from this little company called AC Propulsion for the electric drive train and battery. As the AC Propulsion technology did not work in production and we ended up using none of it in the long term, none of it. We had to redesign everything. And then once you add a battery pack and an electric motor, so car got heavier. It got 30% heavier, invalidated the entire structure, all the crash structure. Everything had to be redone. I think it had less than 7% of the parts were common with any other device including cars or anything.

Joe Rogan:  Less than 7%?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Everything? Including tires and wheels? Bolts? Breaks?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, even every-

Joe Rogan:  Steering wheel? The seat?

Elon Musk:  The steering wheel was … I think the steering wheel was almost the same. Yes, the wind screen, wind screen.

Joe Rogan:  Different?

Elon Musk:  No, I think the windscreen was the same.

Joe Rogan:  Same?

Elon Musk:  Yes. I think we were able to keep the wind screen.

Joe Rogan:  Less than 7%, so that’s basically-

Elon Musk:  Every body panel was different. The entire structure was different. We couldn’t use the HVAC system, the air conditioner. It was a belt driven air conditioner.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, right.

Elon Musk:  So, now we needed something that was electrically driven. We needed a new AC compressor.

Joe Rogan:  And all that takes away from the battery life as well right?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. We needed a small, highly efficient air conditioning system that fit in a tiny car, and was electrically powered and not belt driven. It was very difficult.

Joe Rogan:  How much did those weigh? Those cars? The roadster?

Elon Musk:  I think it was about 2,700 pounds.

Joe Rogan:  That’s still very light.

Elon Musk:  27 … It depends on which version. 2,650 to 2,750 pounds. Something like that.

Joe Rogan:  And what was the weight distribution?

Elon Musk:  It was about … Well, there were different versions of the car, so it was about 55 on the rear because it was-

Joe Rogan:  That’s not bad.

Elon Musk:  … rear bias.

Joe Rogan:  Right, but not bad considering a 911, which is one of the most popular sports cars of all time. Heavy rear end bias.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. The 911, lack of a joke, is like the [inaudible 01:56:47] despite Newton not being on their side. If you’re fighting Newton it’s very difficult.

Joe Rogan:  Well-

Elon Musk:  You’ve got this … The moments of inertia on a 911 don’t make any sense.

Joe Rogan:  They do once you understand them. Once you understand them-

Elon Musk:  You don’t want to hang the engine off the ass because it is not a wise move.

Joe Rogan:  You don’t want to let up on the gas when you’re in a corner.

Elon Musk:  The problem with something that’s where the engine is mounted over the rear axil or off the rear axil towards the rear it that your pulling amount of inertia is fundamentally screwed. You cannot solve this. It’s unsolvable. You’re screwed. Pulled amount of inertia is you’re screwed. R

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  Seriously, if you spun the car like a top that’s your [inaudible 01:57:32] moment of inertia. You’re just … I promised I wouldn’t swear on this, by the way.

Joe Rogan:  Really? To who?

Elon Musk:  My friend.

Joe Rogan:  Tell that friend to go fuck himself. Who told you not to swear?

Elon Musk:  I friend.

Joe Rogan:  That’s not a good friend.

Elon Musk:  Yes. [crosstalk 01:57:46]

Joe Rogan:  … realize you’re fucking Elon Musk. You can do whatever you want, man. If you ever get confused, call me.

Elon Musk:  I’ll swear in private.

Joe Rogan:  Okay.

Elon Musk:  Swear up a storm.

Joe Rogan:  Just say frickin’. It’s a fun way, those old house moms, wives and shit that have children. “Oh, this frickin’ thing.”

Elon Musk:  Yeah, but anyway the Porsche, it’s incredible how well Porsche has given that its physics, the moments of inertia aren’t so messed up to actually still make it work well is incredible.

Joe Rogan:  If you know how to turn into the corner once you get used to the feeling of it there’s actual benefits to it. There are some benefits.

Elon Musk:  I enjoy … The car I had before Tesla was a 911.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, okay.

Elon Musk:  That was-

Joe Rogan:  Nine nine seven or six?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Nine nine seven?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. That’s a great car, man.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Particularly on the Porsche when they had the variable vanes, the turbo, and it didn’t have the turbo lag, that was great. That was really great. The turbo lag is you floor it, phone home, call your mom.

Joe Rogan:  The older ones, right?

Elon Musk:  About an hour later the car accelerates.

Joe Rogan:  And super dangerous, too, because then the wheels start spinning. Yeah. There’s something fun about it, though, feeling that rear weight kicking around. And again-

Elon Musk:  It’s great.

Joe Rogan:  … it’s not efficient.

Elon Musk:  I had a good feel to it.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I agree.

Joe Rogan:  But that’s what I was talking about earlier about that little car that I have, the ’93 911. It’s not fast. It’s not the best handling car, but it’s more satisfying than any other car I have because it’s so mechanical. Everything about it crackles and bumps and it gives you all this feedback. I take it to the Comedy Store because when I get there I feel like my brain is just popping and it’s on fire. It’s like a strategy for me now that I really stopped driving other cars there. I drive that car there just for the brain juice. Just for the interaction.

Elon Musk:  You should try Model S P100D.

Joe Rogan:  I’ll try it.

Elon Musk:  It’ll blow your mind.

Joe Rogan:  Okay.

Elon Musk:  And your skull.

Joe Rogan:  Okay. Tell me what to order, I’ll order it.

Elon Musk:  Model S P100D.

Joe Rogan:  Okay, Jamie, write it down.

Elon Musk:  That’s the car that I drive.

Joe Rogan:  Okay, okay. I’ll get with the car you drive. Okay.

Elon Musk:  It will blow your mind out of your skull.

Joe Rogan:  How far can I … I believe you. How car can I drive? How far can I go?

Elon Musk:  About 300 miles.

Joe Rogan:  That’s good. For L.A. regular days that’s good.

Elon Musk:  You’ll never notice the battery.

Joe Rogan:  Never?

Elon Musk:  Never.

Joe Rogan:  How hard is it to get one of the crazy plugs installed in your house? That difficult?

Elon Musk:  No, it’s super easy. It’s like-

Joe Rogan:  Didn’t you-

Elon Musk:  … it’s like a dryer plug. It’s like a dryer outlet.

Joe Rogan:  Didn’t you come up with some crazy tiles for your roof that are solar paneled?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Yeah, I have it on my roof right now, actually. I’m just trying it out. The thing, it takes a while to test roof stuff because roofs have to last a long time, so you want your roof to last at least 30 years.

Joe Rogan:  Could you put it over a regular roof?

Elon Musk:  No. So, there’s two versions. There’s the solar panels you put on a rood. It depends on whether your roof’s new or old. If your roof’s new you don’t want to replace the roof. You want to put solar panels on the roof, so that’s retro fit. And then we’re trying to make the retro fit panels look real nice. But then the new product we’re coming out with is if you have a roof that’s either your building a house or you’re going to replace a roof anyway then make the tiles have solar cells embedded in the tiles. It’s quite a tricky thing ’cause you want to not see the solar cell behind the glass tile, do you have to really work with the glass, and the various coatings, and layers so that you don’t see the solar cell behind the glass, otherwise it doesn’t look right. So, it’s really tricky-

Joe Rogan:  There is it. Jamie put it up there.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Man, that looks good. Is there a-

Elon Musk:  See, if you look closely you can … If you zoom in you can see the cell, but if you zoom out you don’t see the cell.

Joe Rogan:  Right. Well, it looks cool though.

Elon Musk:  See?

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  That’s hard.

Joe Rogan:  Invisible solar cell.

Elon Musk:  It’s really hard because you have to have sunlight go through, but when it gets reflected back out it hides the fact that there’s a cell there.

Joe Rogan:  Now are those available to the consumer right now?

Elon Musk:  Well, we have a, I think-

Joe Rogan:  Those on that roof right there?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  That’s amazing. Oh, that looks good.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Ooh. I like that.

Elon Musk:  That one’s hard.

Joe Rogan:  So, you’ve got that fake Spanish looking thing.

Elon Musk:  That’s French light.

Joe Rogan:  That’s White people in Connecticut smoking pipes. Look at that one. That’s bad ass, dude.

Elon Musk:  Those all actually work.

Joe Rogan:  I believe you. So, the solar panels that are on that house that we just looked at, is that sufficient to power the entire home?

Elon Musk:  It depends on your energy on how efficient-

Joe Rogan:  Expenditure?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, yeah. So, generally yes. I would say it’s probably for most it’s going to vary, but anywhere from more than you need to maybe half. Call it half to 1.5 of the energy that you need. Depending on how much roof you have relative to living space-

Joe Rogan:  And how ridiculous you are with the TV.

Elon Musk:  TV’s no problem. Air conditioners-

Joe Rogan:  Blenders.

Elon Musk:  Air conditioning.

Joe Rogan:  Air conditioning?

Elon Musk:  Air conditioning is the problem. If you have an efficient air conditioner and depending on how … Are you air conditioning rooms when they don’t need to be air conditioned, which is very common because it’s a pain in the neck. It’s like programming your VCR. It’s just blinking 12, so people just like, “The hell with that. I’m just going to make it this temperature all day long.”

Joe Rogan:  Right. They don’t have a smart home where if you’re in the room then it stays cool. Right.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. It should predict when you’re going to be home and then cool the rooms that you’re likely to use with a little but of intelligence. We’re not talking about genius home here. We’re just talking elementary basic stuff. If you could hook that into the car as you’re coming home… There’s no point in cooling the home, keeping the home really cool when you’re not there, but it can tell that you’re coming home it’s going to cool it to the right temperature right when you get there.

Joe Rogan:  Do you have an app that works with your solar panels or anything like that?

Elon Musk:  Yeah. Yeah, we do. But we need to hook it in to the air conditioning to really make the air conditioning work.

Joe Rogan:  Have you thought about creating an air conditioning system? I know you have. Trick question.

Elon Musk:  I cannot answer that questions about future or potential products.

Joe Rogan:  Okay. Let’s just let it go. we’ll move on to the next thing.

Elon Musk:  But that would be an interesting idea.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, I would say. Radiant heating, all that. Good ideas. When you think about the efficiency of these homes and you think about implementing solar power, and battery power, and is there anything else that people are missing? Is there any other … I just saw a smart watch that is powered by the heat of the human body. Some new technology.

Elon Musk:  It’s able to fully power that way?

Joe Rogan:  I don’t know if it’s fully or if its … This watch right here, this is a Casio. It’s called a Protek, and it’s an outdoors watch, and it’s solar powered. So, it has the ability to operate for a certain amount of time on solar. So, if you have it exposed it could function for a certain amount of time on solar.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, well, there’s the self weighted watches watches where it’s got a weight in the watch and as you move your wrist the weight moves from one side to the other and it winds the watch up. That’s a pretty cool thing.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, yeah. Well, it’s amazing that Rolex’s, that it’s all done mechanically. There’s no batteries in there. There’s no nothing.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, you could do the same thing, create a little charger that’s based on wrist movement. It really depends on how much energy your watch uses.

Joe Rogan:  You know what’s fucked up about that, though? We accept a certain amount of fuckery with those watches. I brought my watch … I have a Rolex that my friend Lorenzo gave and I brought it to the watch store and I said, “This thing’s always fast.” I said, “It’s always after a couple months its five minutes fast.” And they go, “Yep.” They go, “Yeah.”

Elon Musk:  Really?

Joe Rogan:  It’s just what it does.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  and I go, “Hold on, so you’re telling me that it just is always going to be fast?” They’re like, “Yeah. It’s just like every few months you’ve got to reset it.”

Elon Musk:  Seems like the should recalibrate that thing.

Joe Rogan:  They can’t. They tried. They say every few months, whether it’s four months, or five months, or six months, it’s going to be a couple minutes fast.

Elon Musk:  Okay, it seems like they should really recalibrate that because it’s always fast [crosstalk 02:06:31]-

Joe Rogan:  You should figure that shit out. Right.

Elon Musk:  … you could just delete those minutes.

Joe Rogan:  You need to fucking kick down the door at Rolex and go, “You bitches are lazy.”

Elon Musk:  It’s amazing that you can keep time mechanically on a wrist watch with these tiny little gears.

Joe Rogan:  It’s amazing. The whole luxury watch market is fascinating. I’m not that involved in terms like I don’t buy them. I bought them as gifts, but I don’t buy them for myself, but when I look at them online there’s million dollar watches out there now that they have little rotating moons and stars. They live … Look at this thing. How much is that one, Jamie?

Joe Rogan:  Right around-

Joe Rogan:  These are fucking preposterous.

Elon Musk:  I like gears.

Joe Rogan:  I love them.

Elon Musk:  Yeah. I think they’re beautiful.

Joe Rogan:  But there’s some of these people are just taking right in the ass. They’re buying these watches for $750,000.00. I’m like, “Yo, that’s a Timex, son. Nobody knows.” It’s not any better than some Casio that you could just buy online … Look at that, though. Here’s the thing, if you’re a person that doesn’t just want to know the time, you want craftsmanship, you want some artisan’s touch, you want innovation in terms of a person figuring out how gears and cogs all line up perfectly to every time it turns over its basically a second. That’s just … There’s art to that. It’s-

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I agree.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, it’s not just telling time. I like this watch a lot, but if it got hit by a rock I wouldn’t be sad. It’s just a watch. It’s …

PART 4 OF 5 ENDS [02:08:04]

Joe Rogan:  … but if it got hit by a rock, I wouldn’t be sad.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  It’s just a watch. It’s a mass produced thing that runs on some quartz battery. But those things, there’s art to that.

Elon Musk:  No, I agree. It’s beautiful.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, love it.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  There’s something amazing about it because it represents the human creativity. It’s not just an electronic innovation. There’s a person’s work in that.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  You don’t have a watch on?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  Ever?

Elon Musk:  I used to have a watch.

Joe Rogan:  What happened?

Elon Musk:  My phone tells the time.

Joe Rogan:  That’s a good point. What if you lose your phone?

Joe Rogan:  Wait, hold on.

Elon Musk:  True.

Joe Rogan:  Let me guess, you are a no case guy?

Elon Musk:  That’s correct.

Joe Rogan:  Ooh.

Elon Musk:  Living on the edge. Living on the edge without a case.

Joe Rogan:  Neil deGrasse Tyson, Neil deGrasse Tyson was in here last week. I marveled at his ability to get through life without a case.

Elon Musk:  That’s right.

Joe Rogan:  He takes his phone and he flips it in between his fingers, like a soldier would do with his rifle.

Elon Musk:  Really?

Joe Rogan:  He just rolls that shit in between his fingers.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  Marvelous.

Elon Musk:  Wow.

Joe Rogan:  He says that’s the reason why they do it. He said, “When you look at someone who has a rifle, why would they do that? Why would they flip it around like that?”

Elon Musk:  Right.

Joe Rogan:  So that when it goes to drop, they have it in their hand. They catch it quickly. That’s what he does with his phone. He’s just flipping his phone around all the time. I got that in Mexico. I was hoping it holds joints.

Elon Musk:  Does it do anything? It seems to open.

Joe Rogan:  No. It’s just a hole.

Elon Musk:  Could store things in there.

Joe Rogan:  Try to put a joint in there, close it. You can put like one, one blunt. One, that seems pretentious, you know? That’s the idea behind it. I bought it when I was in Mexico because I figured it would be a good size to hold joints. Guess not.

Elon Musk:  So is that a joint, or is it a cigar?

Joe Rogan:  No, it’s marijuana inside of a tobacco.

Elon Musk:  Oh, okay. So it’s like part tobacco, part-

Joe Rogan:  You never had that?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I think I tried one once.

Jamie:        Come on, man.

Joe Rogan:  You probably can’t because of stockholders, right?

Elon Musk:  I mean, it’s legal, right?

Joe Rogan:  Totally legal.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  How does that work? Do people get upset at you if you do certain things?

Joe Rogan:  There’s tobacco and marijuana in there. That’s all it is. The combination of tobacco and marijuana is wonderful. First turned onto it by Charlie Murphy, and then reignited by Dave Chappelle. There you go.

Jamie:        Plus whiskey.

Elon Musk:  Ha ha, exactly.

Joe Rogan:  Perfect, balances it out.

Elon Musk:  Alcohol is a drug, it’s been grandfathered in.

Joe Rogan:  Well, it’s not just a drug. It’s a drug that gets a bad rap because if you just have a little, it’s great.

Elon Musk:  Fine.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, a little sip here and there, and your inhibitions are relaxed, and it shows your true self, and hopefully you’re more joyous and friendly and happy, and everything’s good.

Joe Rogan:  The real worry is the people that can’t handle it, like the real worry about people that can’t handle cars that can go zero to 60 in 1.9 seconds, or anything.

Joe Rogan:  Have you ever considered something that, imagine if one day, everyone has a car that’s on the same at least technological standard as one of your cars? Everyone agrees that the smart thing to do is not just to have bumpers, but to perhaps have some sort of a magnetic repellent device; something, some electro magnetic field around the cars. And as cars come close to each other, they automatically radically decelerate because of magnets or something.

Elon Musk:  Well, I mean, our cars brake automatically.

Joe Rogan:  Brake, yeah.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  When they see things.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  But like a physical barrier.

Elon Musk:  Well, the wheels work pretty well as brakes.

Joe Rogan:  The wheels do?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, they work pretty well. Decelerate at 1.1 to 1.2 G’s, that kind of thing.

Joe Rogan:  Is your concern that one day all your cars would be on the road, and then there will still be regular people with regular cars, 20-30 years from now, that’ll get in the mix, and be the main problem?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I think it’d be sort of like … there was a time of transition where there were horses and gasoline cars on the road at the same time. Must’ve been pretty weird.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, that would be the weirdest.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  And horses were tricky, you know, back when Manhattan had like 300,000 horses, you figure like horse lives 15 years, you got 20,000 horses dropping dead every day, or every year I should say. Every year there’s 20,000 horses, if there’s 300,000 horses and a 15 year lifespan.

Joe Rogan:  Back in the Gangs of New York days. That movie?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  It’s a lot of dead horses. You need a horse to move the horse.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  They’ll probably get pretty freaked out if they have to move a dead horse.

Joe Rogan:  Do you think they know what’s going on?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I mean it’s gotta be like, pretty weird.

Joe Rogan:  No, I would imagine.

Elon Musk:  Why am I dragging this dead horse around, and I’m a horse? I don’t like it.

Joe Rogan:  Do you ever stop and think about your role in civilization? Do you ever stop and think about your role in the culture? Because me, as a person who never met you until today, when I think of you, I’ve always thought of you as being this weirdo super inventor dude, who just somehow or another keeps coming up with new shit. But there’s not a lot of you out there. Everybody else seems to be, I mean obviously, you make a lot of money, and there’s a lot of people that make a lot of money.

Joe Rogan:  You like that clock?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Pretty dope, right?

Elon Musk:  This is a great clock.

Joe Rogan:  You want one? I’ll get you one.

Elon Musk:  Sure.

Joe Rogan:  Okay, done.

Elon Musk:  I like weird things like this.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, this is the coolest. It’s TGT promotion. What it says, TGT Studios? TGT Studios?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  It’s a gentleman who makes all this by hand. Yeah, it’s really cool.

Elon Musk:  My study is filled with weird devices.

Joe Rogan:  Well, get ready for another one.

Elon Musk:  All right.

Joe Rogan:  I’m sending it your way.

Elon Musk:  Cool.

Joe Rogan:  You wanna werewolf too? I’ll hook you up.

Elon Musk:  All right. I’ll take one.

Joe Rogan:  One werewolf, and one clock coming up.

Joe Rogan:  Do you think about your role in the culture? Because me as a person who never met you until today, I’ve always looked at you and like, “Wow, how’s this guy just keep inventing shit?”

Joe Rogan:  How do you keep coming up with all these new devices? Do you ever consider how …

Joe Rogan:  I had a dream once that there was a million Teslas. Instead of like one Tesla, there was a million Teslas.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  Not Tesla the car, but Nikola.

Elon Musk:  Oh, yeah, sure.

Joe Rogan:  And that in his day, there was a million people like him who were radically innovative.

Elon Musk:  Wow.

Joe Rogan:  It was a weird dream, man. It was so strange, and I’ve had it more than once.

Elon Musk:  That would result in very rapid technology innovation, that’s for sure.

Joe Rogan:  It’s one of the only dreams in my life I’ve had more than one time.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  Like where I’ve woken up and it’s in the same dream. I’m in the same dream. In this dream, it’s 1940s, 1950s, but everyone is severely advanced. There’s flying blimps with LCD screens on the side of them, and everything’s bizarre and strange.

Joe Rogan:  It’s stuck with me, obviously it’s just a stupid dream, but for whatever reason, all these years, that stuck with me. It takes one man like Nikola Tesla to have more than 100 inventions that were patents, right? He had some-

Elon Musk:  It’s pretty great.

Joe Rogan:  … pretty fucking amazing ideas.

Elon Musk:  Yes, definitely.

Joe Rogan:  In his day, there was very few people like him.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, that’s true.

Joe Rogan:  What if there was a million?

Elon Musk:  Things would advance very quickly.

Joe Rogan:  Right, but there’s not a million Elon Musks. There’s one motherfucker. Do you think about that, or you just try to not?

Elon Musk:  Hmm.

Elon Musk:  I don’t think you’d necessarily want to be me.

Joe Rogan:  Well, what’s the worst part about you?

Elon Musk:  I don’t think people would like it that much.

Joe Rogan:  Well, most people wouldn’t, but they can’t be you. That’s like some superhero type shit. You wouldn’t wanna be Spider-Man, rather just sleep tight in Gotham City, and hope he’s out there doing his job.

Elon Musk:  It’s very hard to turn it off.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  What’s the hardest part?

Elon Musk:  It might sound great if it’s turned on.

Joe Rogan:  Sleep?

Elon Musk:  But what if it doesn’t turn off?

Joe Rogan:  Now, I showed you the isolation tank, and you’ve never experienced that before?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  I think that could help you turn it off a little bit, just for the night.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, just give you a little bit of sleep, little bit of perspective, some magnesium that you get from the water as well, that makes you sleep easier because the water has Epsom salts in it. But maybe some sort of strategy for sacrificing your, not sacrificing, but enhancing your biological recovery time by figuring out a way, whether it’s through meditation or some other ways, to shut off that thing at night.

Joe Rogan:  You must have like a constant stream of ideas that’s running through your head all the time. You getting text messages from chicks?

Elon Musk:  No. I’m getting text messages from friends saying, “What the hell are you doing smoking weed?”

Joe Rogan:  Is that bad for you? It’s legal. It’s government approved.

Elon Musk:  It’s not … I’m not a regular smoker of weed.

Joe Rogan:  How often do you smoke it?

Elon Musk:  Almost never.

Elon Musk:  I don’t actually notice any effect.

Joe Rogan:  Well, there you go. There was a time where, I think it was Ram Dass or someone, gave some Buddhist monk a bunch of acid.

Elon Musk:  Okay.

Joe Rogan:  And he ate it, and it had no effect on him.

Elon Musk:  I doubt that.

Joe Rogan:  I would say that too, but I’ve never meditated to the level that some of these people have, where they’re constantly meditating all day. They don’t have any material possessions, and all of their energy is spent trying to achieve a certain mindset. I would like to cynically deny that. I’d like to cynically say, “They just fucking think the same way I do. They just hang out with flip flops on and make weird noises.”

Joe Rogan:  But maybe, no?

Elon Musk:  I know a lot of people like weed, and that’s fine. But I don’t that it is very good for productivity.

Joe Rogan:  For you?

Elon Musk:  Not for me.

Joe Rogan:  I would imagine that for someone like you, it’s not. Someone like you, it’d be more like a cup of coffee, right? You have a latte?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, it’s more like the opposite of a cup of coffee.

Joe Rogan:  What do you like?

Elon Musk:  It’s like a cup of coffee in reverse.

Joe Rogan:  Oh, weed is?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  No, I’m saying you would like more, more like what would be beneficial to you, would be like coffee?

Elon Musk:  I like to get things done. I like to be useful. That is one of the hardest things to do, is to be useful.

Joe Rogan:  When you say you like to get things done, in terms of like what-

Elon Musk:  I like to get things done.

Joe Rogan:  … gives you satisfaction? When you complete a project, when something that you invent comes to fruition, and you see people enjoying it? That feeling?

Elon Musk:  Yes. Doing something useful for other people, that I like doing.

Joe Rogan:  That’s interesting, “for other people.”

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Do you think that that is maybe the way you recognize that you have this unusual position in the culture, where you can uniquely influence certain things because of this … I mean, essentially, you have a gift, right?

Elon Musk:  Ha ha.

Joe Rogan:  You would think it was a curse? I’m sure it’s been fueled by many, many years of discipline and learning, but you essentially have a gift. You have this radical sort of creativity engine when it comes to innovation and technology. It’s like, you’re just, you’re going at a very high RPMs.

Elon Musk:  All the time.

Joe Rogan:  What is that like?

Elon Musk:  It doesn’t stop.

Elon Musk:  I don’t know what would happen if I got into a sensory deprivation tank.

Joe Rogan:  Let’s try it.

Elon Musk:  It sounds concerning.

Joe Rogan:  But why?

Elon Musk:  It’s like running the engine with no resistance. That seems-

Joe Rogan:  Is that what it is though? Maybe it’s not.

Elon Musk:  Maybe it’s fine. I don’t know. I’ll try it. I’ll try it.

Joe Rogan:  Have you ever experimented with meditation or anything?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  What’d you do, or what have you done rather?

Elon Musk:  I mean just sort of sit there and be quiet, and then repeat some mantra, which acts as a focal point. It does still the mind. It does still the mind, but I don’t find myself drawn to it frequently.

Joe Rogan:  Do you that perhaps productivity is maybe more attractive to you than enlightenment? Or even the concept of whatever enlightenment means. What are you trying to achieve when you’re meditating all the time?

Joe Rogan:  With you it seems almost like there’s a franticness to your creativity, that comes out of this burning furnace. In order for you to calm that thing down, you might have to throw too much water on it.

Elon Musk:  It’s like a never ending explosion.

Joe Rogan:  What is it like? Try to explain it to a dumb person like me. What’s goin on in the head?

Elon Musk:  A never ending explosion.

Joe Rogan:  It’s just constant ideas, just bouncing around?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Damn.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  So when everybody leaves, it’s just Elon, sitting at home, brushing his teeth, just a bunch of ideas bouncing around in your head?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, all the time.

Joe Rogan:  When did you realize that that’s not the case with most people?

Elon Musk:  I think when I was, I don’t know, five or six or something. I thought I was insane.

Joe Rogan:  Why’d you think you were insane?

Elon Musk:  Because it was clear that other people did not … their mind wasn’t exploding with ideas all the time.

Joe Rogan:  So they weren’t expressing it, they weren’t talking about it all day? And you realized, by the time you were five or six, like, Oh, they’re probably not even getting this thing that I’m getting?”

Elon Musk:  No. It was just strange. It was like, “Hmm, I’m strange.” That was my conclusion. I’m strange.

Joe Rogan:  Did you feel diminished by it in any way? Like knowing that this is weird thing, that you really probably couldn’t commiserate with, with other people? They wouldn’t understand you?

Elon Musk:  I hoped they wouldn’t find out because they might put me away or something.

Joe Rogan:  You thought that?

Elon Musk:  For a second, yes.

Joe Rogan:  When you were little?

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I know they put people away. What if they put me away?

Joe Rogan:  When you were little you thought this?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Wow.

Joe Rogan:  You thought, “This is so radically different than the people that around me. If they find out I got this stream coming in …”

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Whoa.

Elon Musk:  I was only like five or six.

Joe Rogan:  Do you think this is like, there’s outliers, biologically? I mean there’s people that are seven foot nine, there’s people that have giant hands. There’s people that have eyes that are 20/15 vision. There’s always outliers. Do you feel like you caught this, like you’ve got some, you’re on some weird innovation, creativity, sort of wave, that’s very unusual? You tapped into … just think of the various things you’ve been able to accomplish in a very short amount of time, and you’re constantly doing this. That’s a weird … you’re a weird person, right?

Elon Musk:  Right, I agree.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  What if there’s a million Elon Musks?

Elon Musk:  Well, that would be very, very weird.

Joe Rogan:  Woo! Woo.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, it’d be pretty weird. I agree.

Joe Rogan:  Real weird.

Elon Musk:  Definitely.

Elon Musk:  What if there were a million Joe Rogans?

Joe Rogan:  Oh, there probably is. There’s probably two million.

Joe Rogan:  I mean, I think that’s the case with a lot of folks.

Elon Musk:  My goal is try to do useful things, try to maximize the probability the future’s good, make the future exciting, something you look forward to. With Tesla, I try to make things that people love.

Elon Musk:  How many things can you buy that you really love? That really give you joy? It’s so rare, so rare. I wish there were more things. That’s what we try to do, just make things that somebody loves.

Joe Rogan:  When you think about making things that someone loves, do you specifically think about, like what things would improve people’s experience? What would change the way people interface with life? That would make them more relaxed or more happy? You really think … when you’re thinking about things like that, is that one of your considerations? What could I do that would help people?

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  That maybe they wouldn’t be able to figure out.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, like, what are the set of things that can be done to make the future better? I think that a future where we are a space bearing civilization, and out there among the stars, this is very exciting. This makes me look forward to the future. This makes me want that future.

Elon Musk:  There need to be things that make you look forward to waking up in the morning. You wake in morning, you look forward to the day, forward to the future. A future where we are a space bearing civilization and out there among the stars, I think that’s very exciting. That is a thing we want. Whereas if we knew we would not be a space bearing civilization, but forever confined to Earth, this would not be a good future that would be very sad, I think.

Joe Rogan:  It would be sad-

Elon Musk:  I don’t want the sad future.

Joe Rogan:  … in terms of just the finite lifespan of the Earth itself, and the solar system itself? That even though it’s possibly … how long do they feel like this sun and this solar system’s gonna exist? How many hundreds and millions of years?

Elon Musk:  Well, it’s probably, if you’re saying, “When does the sun boil the oceans?”

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  About 500 million years.

Joe Rogan:  Is it sad that we never leave because in 500 million years that happens? Is that what you’re saying?

Elon Musk:  No, I just think like if there are two futures, and one future is we’re out there among the stars, the things we read about and see in science fiction movies, the good ones, are true. We have these starships and we’re going to see what other planets are like, and we’re a multi-planet species, and the scope and scale of consciousness is expanded across many civilizations and many planets, and many star systems. This is a great future. This is a wonderful thing to me. That’s what we should strive for.

Joe Rogan:  But, that’s biological travel. That’s cells traveling physically to another location.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Do you think that’s definitely where we’re going?

Elon Musk:  No.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, I don’t think so either. I used to think so, and now I’m thinking more likely less than ever. Almost every day, less likely.

Elon Musk:  We can definitely go to the moon and Mars.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. Do you think that we’ll colonize-

Elon Musk:  And we can go to the asteroid belt, and we can go to the moons of Jupiter, Saturn, we could even get to Pluto.

Joe Rogan:  That’d be the craziest place ever, if we colonized Mars, and re-terraformed it and turned it into like a big Jamaica. Just oceans and-

Elon Musk:  I think we should. I think that it’d be-

Joe Rogan:  I mean imagine-

Elon Musk:  … great. That’d be great. Amazing.

Joe Rogan:  It’s possible, right?

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  We can turn the whole thing into Cancun.

Elon Musk:  Well-

Joe Rogan:  Over time.

Elon Musk:  … it wouldn’t be easy, but yes.

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  You could warm it up.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, you could warm it up. You could add air. You could get some water there. I mean over time, hundreds of millions of years, or whatever it takes.

Elon Musk:  We’d be a multi-planet species.

Joe Rogan:  That would be amazing.

Elon Musk:  We’d be a multi-planet species, that’s what we wanna be. Great.

Joe Rogan:  If we could legitimately air condition Saturn-

Elon Musk:  I’m pro-human.

Joe Rogan:  Me too. Yeah, me too.

Elon Musk:  I love humanity. I think it’s great.

Joe Rogan:  We’re glad, as a robot, that you love humans because we love you too. We don’t want you to kill us, and eat us.

Elon Musk:  You know, strangely, I think a lot of people don’t like humanity, and see it as a blight, but I do not.

Joe Rogan:  I think one of those, I think part of that is just they’ve been struggling. When people struggle, they associate their struggle with other people. They never internalize their problems. They look to other people as holding them back, and people such, and fuck people. It’s just a never ending cycle, but not always. Again, most people, are really good. Most people, the vast majority.

Elon Musk:  This may sound corny.

Joe Rogan:  It does sound corny.

Elon Musk:  But love is the answer.

Joe Rogan:  It is the answer.

Elon Musk:  Yep.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, it is. It sounds corny because we’re all scared. We’re all scared of trying to love people, being rejected, or someone taking advantage of you because you’re trying to be loving.

Elon Musk:  Sure.

Joe Rogan:  But if we all could just relax, and love each other …

Elon Musk:  It wouldn’t hurt to have more love in the world.

Joe Rogan:  It definitely wouldn’t hurt.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  It’d be great.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, we should do that.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah. I agree, man.

Elon Musk:  Like really.

Joe Rogan:  How you gonna fix that? You have a love machine that you’re working on?

Elon Musk:  No, but probably spend more time with your friends, and less time on social media.

Joe Rogan:  Now deleting social media from your applications, from your phones. Does that give you a ten percent boost to happiness? What do you think the percentage is?

Elon Musk:  I think probably something like that, yeah. That’s about right.

Joe Rogan:  Good ten percent.

Elon Musk:  I mean the only thing I’ve kept is Twitter because I kind of like need some means of getting a message out, you know?

Joe Rogan:  Right.

Elon Musk:  That’s about it, so far so good.

Joe Rogan:  Well, what’s interesting with you, you actually occasionally engage with people on Twitter.

Elon Musk:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  What percentage of that is a good idea?

Elon Musk:  Ha ha ha.

Elon Musk:  Good question.

Joe Rogan:  Probably ten percent, right? It’s hard.

Elon Musk:  It’s mostly, I think it’s on balance more good than bad, but there’s definitely some bad. Hopefully the good outweighs the bad.

Joe Rogan:  Do you ever think about how odd it is, the weird feeling that you get when someone says something shitty to you on Twitter, and you read it? The weird feeling. This weird little negative jolt. It’s like a subjective, negative jolt of energy that you don’t really need to absorb, but you do anyway. “Well, fuck this guy. Fuck him!”

Elon Musk:  There’s a lot of negativity on Twitter.

Joe Rogan:  It is, but it’s a weird, in its form, like the way if you ingest it as if you were like … you try to be like a little scientist, as you’re ingesting it. You’re like, “What? How weird is this that I’m even getting upset at some strange person saying something mean to me?” It’s not even accurate.

Elon Musk:  I mean the vast number of negative comments, for the vast majority, I just ignore them, the vast majority.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Elon Musk:  Every now and again, you’re drawn in. It’s not good.

Joe Rogan:  It’s not good.

Elon Musk:  You make mistakes.

Joe Rogan:  Yes, you can make mistakes.

Elon Musk:  Make some mistakes.

Joe Rogan:  We’re all human. We can make mistakes. Yeah, it’s hard, and people love it when you say something, and you take it back. They’re like, “Fuck you, we saved it forever. We fucking screenshot that shit, bitch. You had that thought! You had that thought!”

Joe Rogan:  You’re like, “Well, I deleted it.”

Joe Rogan:  “Not good enough! You had the thought! I’m better than you. I never had that thought. You had that thought, you piece of shit. Look, I saved it. I put it on my blog.”

Elon Musk:  Yeah, I’m not sure why people think that anyone would think that deleting a tweet makes it go away. It’s like, “Hello, there’s been an internet for a while.”

Joe Rogan:  Well, it’s even like-

Elon Musk:  Anything is forever.

Joe Rogan:  … they don’t want you to be able to delete it because the problem is, if you don’t delete, and you don’t believe it anymore, it’s really hard to say, “Hey, that thing above, I don’t really believe that anymore. I changed the way I view things.”

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Because people go, “Well, fuck you. I already have that over there. I’m gonna just take that. I’m not gonna pay attention to that shit you wrote underneath.”

Elon Musk:  It’s on your permanent record.

Joe Rogan:  It’s forever, bro, like a tattoo.

Elon Musk:  We’ll put this on your permanent record.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, it’s like a tattoo, you keep it.

Elon Musk:  Oh, yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  Well, it’s this thing where there’s a lack of compassion. It’s a lack of compassion issue. People are just like intentionally shitty to each other all the time online, and trying to catch … They’re more trying to catch people doing something that’s arrestable, like a cop trying to get arrests on his record. It’s like they’re trying to catch you with something, more than they’re logically looking at it, thinking it’s a bad thing that you’ve done, or that it’s an idea they don’t agree with so much they need to insult you. They’re trying to catch you.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, it’s way easier to be mean on social media than it is to be in person.

Joe Rogan:  Yes.

Elon Musk:  Way easier.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah.

Joe Rogan:  It’s weird. It’s not a normal way of human interacting. It’s cheating.

Elon Musk:  True.

Joe Rogan:  We’re not supposed to be able to interact so easily with people we’re not looking at.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  You would never do that. You’d never be so mean to someone looking in their eyes, and if you did you’d feel like shit.

Elon Musk:  Most people.

Joe Rogan:  Yeah, unless you’re a sociopath, you’d feel terrible.

Elon Musk:  Yes.

Joe Rogan:  Elon Musk, this has been a pleasure.

Elon Musk:  Yeah, likewise.

Joe Rogan:  It really has been.

Elon Musk:  It’s been an honor. Thank you for having me.

Joe Rogan:  Thanks for doing this because I know you don’t do a lot of long form stuff like this. I hope I didn’t weird you out, and hope you don’t get mad that you smoked weed. It’s not bad. It’s legal! We’re in California. This is just as legal as this whiskey we’ve been drinking.

Elon Musk:  Exactly.

Joe Rogan:  This is all good, right?

Elon Musk:  Cheers.

Joe Rogan:  Cheers.

Joe Rogan:  Thank you.

Joe Rogan:  Is there any message you would like to put out other than love is the answer because I think you’ve really nailed it with that?

Elon Musk:  No, I think people should be nicer to each other, and give more credit to others, and don’t assume that they’re mean until you know they’re actually mean. Just, it’s easy to demonize people, you’re usually wrong about it. People are nicer than you think. Give people more credit.

Joe Rogan:  I couldn’t agree more. I wanna thank you, not just for all the crazy innovations you’ve come up with, and your constant flow of ideas, but that you choose to spread that idea, which is very vulnerable, but it’s very honest.

Elon Musk:  It’s true.

Joe Rogan:  It resonates with me, and I believe it.

Elon Musk:  It’s true.

Joe Rogan:  I believe it’s true too, so thank you.

Elon Musk:  You’re welcome.

Joe Rogan:  All you assholes out there, be nice. Be nice, bitch.

Joe Rogan:  All right, thank you, everybody. Thank you, Elon.

Elon Musk:  All right, thank you.

Joe Rogan:  Goodnight, everybody.

PART 5 OF 5 ENDS [02:37:02]

Joe Rogan: (00:00)
Welcome back.

Elon Musk: (00:02)
Here we go again.

Joe Rogan: (00:02)
Great to see you and congratulations.

Elon Musk: (00:04)
Thank you.

Joe Rogan: (00:05)
You will never forget what is going on in the world when you think about when your child is born. You will know for the rest of this child’s life, you were born during a weird time.

Elon Musk: (00:16)
That’s for sure.

Joe Rogan: (00:17)
That is for sure. Probably the weirdest that I can remember.

Elon Musk: (00:22)
Yeah. Yeah, and he was born on May the fourth.

Joe Rogan: (00:26)
That’s hilarious, too.

Elon Musk: (00:27)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (00:27)
May the fourth be with him.

Elon Musk: (00:28)
Yes, exactly.

Joe Rogan: (00:29)
It has to be.

Elon Musk: (00:30)
Hopefully. I sure hope so.

Joe Rogan: (00:31)
Perfect.

Elon Musk: (00:31)
Yes.

Joe Rogan: (00:32)
I mean that was the perfect day for you. How do you say the name? Is it placeholder?

Elon Musk: (00:41)
First of all, my partner is the one that actually mostly came up with the name.

Joe Rogan: (00:44)
Congratulations to her.

Elon Musk: (00:46)
Yeah, yeah. She’s great at names. I mean it’s just X, the letter X, and then the ae is like pronounced ash. Yeah, and then eight, 12 is my contribution.

Joe Rogan: (01:04)
Oh, why are eight, 12?

Elon Musk: (01:05)
Archangel 12, the precursor to the SR71. Coolest plane ever. True.

Joe Rogan: (01:12)
I agree with you. I don’t know, I’m not familiar with it. I know what the SR71 is.

Elon Musk: (01:16)
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:17)
Yeah, I know what that is.

Elon Musk: (01:18)
The SR71 came from a CIA program called Archangel. It’s the Archangel project.

Joe Rogan: (01:24)
Oh wow, what a dope looking plane.

Elon Musk: (01:27)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:28)
Oh, okay. I got it.

Elon Musk: (01:29)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:29)
Well, as a person who’s a very much into aerial travel as you are, that’s perfect.

Elon Musk: (01:36)
It’s pretty great.

Joe Rogan: (01:37)
Yeah. Pretty great. Does it feel strange to have a child while this craziness is going? Does it feel like you’ve had children before? Is this any weirder?

Elon Musk: (01:50)
Actually, I think it’s better being older and having a kid. I appreciate it more. Yeah, babies are awesome.

Joe Rogan: (01:59)
They are pretty awesome.

Elon Musk: (02:00)
They’re awesome. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (02:01)
When I didn’t have any of my own, I would see other people’s kids and I didn’t not like them, but I wasn’t drawn to them. But now when I see little people’s kids, I’m like, Oh, I think of them as like these little love packages.

Elon Musk: (02:13)
Yeah, little love bugs.

Joe Rogan: (02:14)
Yeah. It’s just you think of them differently when you see them come out and then grow and then eventually start talking to you, like your whole idea what a baby is, is very different.

Elon Musk: (02:23)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (02:23)
Now, as you get older and get to appreciate it as a mature, fully formed adult, it must be really pretty wonderful.

Elon Musk: (02:32)
Yeah. Great. Wonderful. It’s great. But babies are awesome. Yeah, it’s great. Yeah. Also, I’ve spent a lot of time on AI and neural nets and so you can sort of see the brain develop, which is … An AI neural net is trying to simulate what a brain does, basically. You can sort of see it learning very quickly. You know, it’s just wow.

Joe Rogan: (03:04)
You’re talking about the neural net, you’re not talking about an actual baby.

Elon Musk: (03:07)
I’m talking about an actual baby.

Joe Rogan: (03:09)
But both of them.

Elon Musk: (03:10)
Yes, but the word neural net comes from the brain. It’s like a net of neurons. Humans are the original gangster of the neural net.

Joe Rogan: (03:26)
That’s a great way to put it.

Elon Musk: (03:27)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (03:28)
When you’re programming artificial intelligence where you’re working with artificial intelligence art, are they specifically trying to mimic the developmental process of a human brain?

Elon Musk: (03:41)
In a lot of ways. There’s some ways that are different. An analogy that’s often used is like we don’t make a submarine swim like a fish, but we take the principles of hydrodynamics and apply them to the submarine.

Joe Rogan: (03:59)
I’ve always wondered as a lay person, do you try to achieve the same results as the human brain but through different methods? Or do you try to copy the way a human brain achieves results?

Elon Musk: (04:10)
I mean, the essential elements of an AI neural net are really very similar to a human brain neural net. Yeah. It’s having the multiple layers of neurons and you know, back propagation. All these things are what your brain does. You have a layer of neurons that goes through a series of intermediate steps to ultimately cognition and then it’ll reverse those steps and go back and forth and go all over the place. It’s interesting. Very interesting.

Joe Rogan: (04:51)
Yeah, I would imagine. The thought of programming something that is eventually going to be smarter than us that one day it’s going to be like, why did you do it that way? When artificial intelligence becomes sentient, they’re like, Oh, you tried to mimic yourself. This is so much better process. Cut out all this nonsense.

Elon Musk: (05:11)
Like I said, there are elements that are the same but just like an aircraft does not fly like a bird.

Joe Rogan: (05:17)
Right.

Elon Musk: (05:17)
It doesn’t flap its wings, but the wings, the way the wings work and generate lift is the same as a bird.

Joe Rogan: (05:27)
Now you’re in the middle of this strange time where you’re selling your houses. You say you don’t want any material possessions and I’ve been seeing all that and I’ve been really excited to talk to you about this. Because it’s an interesting thing to come from a guy like yourself. Like why are you doing that?

Elon Musk: (05:44)
I’m slightly sad about it, actually.

Joe Rogan: (05:48)
If you’re sad about it, why are you doing it?

Elon Musk: (05:54)
I think possessions kind of weigh you down and they’re kind of an attack vector. They’ll say, “Hey, billionaire, you’ve got all this stuff.” Well, now I don’t have stuff now what are you going to do?

Joe Rogan: (06:08)
Attack vector meaning like people targeted.

Elon Musk: (06:10)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (06:11)
Interesting, yeah. But you’re obviously going to, so you’re going to rent a place?

Elon Musk: (06:16)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (06:16)
Okay, and get rid of everything except clothes?

Elon Musk: (06:21)
No, I said like almost everything, so it’s like …

Joe Rogan: (06:23)
Keep a couple of Teslas.

Elon Musk: (06:27)
Kind of have to, to test product and stuff. You know, there’s things that have sentimental value for sure are keeping those.

Joe Rogan: (06:33)
Do you feel like … [crosstalk 00:06:39]

Elon Musk: (06:39)
I mean, what’s the worst that could happen? I mean, you’re fine.

Joe Rogan: (06:42)
Yeah, you can always buy more stuff if you don’t like it.

Elon Musk: (06:44)
I suppose so.

Joe Rogan: (06:46)
Yeah, I mean from the money that you sell all your stuff, you can buy new stuff. Do you feel like people define you by the fact that you’re wealthy and that they define you in a pejorative way?

Elon Musk: (06:59)
For sure. I mean not everyone, but for sure in recent years billionaire has become pejorative like that’s a bad thing. Which I think doesn’t make a lot of sense in most cases. If you basically organized a company … How does this wealth arise? If you organize people in a better way to produce products and services that are better than what existed before and you have some ownership in that company then that essentially gives you the right to allocate more capital.

Elon Musk: (07:44)
There’s a conflation of consumption and capital allocation. Take Warren Buffet, for example, and to be totally frank I’m not his biggest fan, but you know, he does like have full allocation and he reads a lot of annual reports of companies and all the accounting and it’s pretty boring really. He’s trying to figure out does Coke or Pepsi deserve more capital? I mean it’s kind of a boring job if you ask me.

Elon Musk: (08:18)
It’s still a thing that’s important to figure out. Like, which is a company deserving of more or less capital. Should that company grow or expand? Is it making products and services that are better than others or worse? If a company is making compelling products and services, it should get more capital and if it’s not, it should get less or go out of business.

Joe Rogan: (08:40)
Well, there’s a big difference, too, between someone who’s making an incredible amount of money designing and engineering fantastic products versus someone who’s making an incredible amount of money by investing in companies or moving money around in the stock market or doing things along those lines. It’s a different thing and to put them all in the same category seems, it’s very simple. As you pointed out, it’s an attack vector.

Elon Musk: (09:06)
Yeah, for sure. I think it’s really, I do think there, in the United States especially, there’s an over allocation of talent in finance and law. Basically, too many smart people go into finance and law. This is both a compliment and a criticism. We should have, I think, fewer people doing law and fewer people doing finance and more people making stuff.

Joe Rogan: (09:37)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (09:38)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (09:39)
Well that would certainly be better for all involved if they made better stuff.

Elon Musk: (09:43)
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Manufacturing used to be highly valued in the United States and these days it’s not. It’s often looked down upon, which I think is wrong.

Joe Rogan: (09:54)
Yeah. Well, I think that people are kind of learning that particularly because of this whole pandemic and this relationship that we have with China, that there’s a lot of value in making things and to making things here.

Elon Musk: (10:10)
Yes. Somebody’s got to do the real work.

Joe Rogan: (10:15)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (10:15)
You know? Making a car, it’s an honest days living, that’s for sure. Making anything, really, or providing a valuable service like providing good entertainment, good information, these are all valuable things to do. Yeah, there should be more of it.

Joe Rogan: (10:36)
Did you have a moment where, is this something that this idea of getting rid of your material possessions is it something that built up over time or did you have a moment of realization where you realized that …

Elon Musk: (10:47)
Yeah, I’ve been thinking about it for a while. You know, part of it is like I have a bunch of houses, but I don’t spend a lot of time in most of them. That doesn’t seem like a good use of assets. Somebody could probably be enjoying those houses and get better use of them me.

Joe Rogan: (11:10)
Don’t you have Gene Wilder’s house?

Elon Musk: (11:11)
I do.

Joe Rogan: (11:12)
That’s amazing.

Elon Musk: (11:12)
It’s awesome.

Joe Rogan: (11:13)
Wow.

Elon Musk: (11:13)
Yes. It’s exactly what you’d expect.

Joe Rogan: (11:17)
Did you request that the buyer not fuck it up?

Elon Musk: (11:19)
Yeah, that’s a requirement.

Joe Rogan: (11:20)
Oh, a requirement? That’s a good requirement.

Elon Musk: (11:23)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (11:24)
In that case in that house.

Elon Musk: (11:25)
Yeah, it’ll probably sell for less, but still I don’t care.

Joe Rogan: (11:27)
Oh, he’s a legend. He’d want his soul, he’d want his essence in the building.

Elon Musk: (11:34)
And it’s there.

Joe Rogan: (11:35)
Is it?

Elon Musk: (11:35)
It’s a real quirky house, yeah.

Joe Rogan: (11:37)
What makes you say that? What do you get out of it?

Elon Musk: (11:44)
I mean, all the cabinets are like handmade and they’re like odd shapes and there’s like doors to nowhere and strange corridors and tunnels and odd paintings on the wall. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (12:01)
Did you ever live in it?

Elon Musk: (12:02)
It’s very quirky. I did live in it briefly, yeah.

Joe Rogan: (12:06)
But why do you buy houses? If you own all these houses, do you just get bored and go I think I’d like to have that?

Elon Musk: (12:13)
Well, I had one house and the Gene Wilder house is right across the road from me from my main house. It was going to get sold and then torn down and turned into, you know, be a big construction zone for three years. I was like, whoa, I think I’ll buy it and preserve the spirit of Gene Wilder and not have a giant construction zone. Then I started having some privacy issues where people would just come to my house and start climbing over the walls and stuff. I’m like, man …

Elon Musk: (12:54)
Then I sort of bought some of the houses around my house and then I thought at one point, well you know, it’d be cool to build a house. I acquired some properties at the top of Somera Road, which has got a great view, and I was like, okay, well there’s a bunch of sort of small older houses, they’re going to get torn down, anyway. I was like, well, if I collect these little houses then I can build something, I don’t know, artistic like a dream house type of thing.

Joe Rogan: (13:33)
What’s a dream house for Elon Musk? Like some Tony stark type shit?

Elon Musk: (13:36)
Yeah, definitely. Yeah. You got to have the dome that opens up with the stealth helicopter and that kind of thing, you know?

Joe Rogan: (13:44)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (13:44)
For sure.

Joe Rogan: (13:45)
Fuck yeah.

Elon Musk: (13:45)
Definitely. But then I was like, man, does it really make sense for me to spend time designing and building a house and I’d be real, you know, ghetto like OCD on the little details and the design, or should I be allocating that time to getting us to Mars? I should probably do the latter. Like what’s more important? Mars or a house? I’m like Mars. Okay.

Joe Rogan: (14:13)
Is that really how you think? Like, I’d be better off planning on a trip to Mars or getting people to Mars?

Elon Musk: (14:21)
Yeah, yeah, definitely. I mean, you can only do so many things.

Joe Rogan: (14:25)
Right.

Elon Musk: (14:26)
Right, so how are you going to [crosstalk 00:14:27]

Joe Rogan: (14:27)
Well, I don’t know how you do what you do anyway. I don’t understand how you can run The Boring Company, Tesla, SpaceX, all these different things you’re doing constantly. I just, I don’t understand. I mean, you explained last time you were here how you sort of allocate your time and how hectic it is and insane. I still don’t, the productivity is baffling. It just doesn’t make sense how you can get so much done.

Elon Musk: (14:52)
Well, I think I do have high productivity, but even with that there’s still some opportunity to [inaudible 00:14:57] time and allocating time to building a house, even if it was a really great house, it still is not a good use of time relative to developing the rockets necessary to get us to Mars and helping solve sustainable energy. SpaceX and Tesla are by far, you know, the most amount of brain cycles. The Boring Company does not take, you know, it’s like less than 1% of brain cycles. Then this neural link, which is, I don’t know, maybe it’s like 5% and then …

Joe Rogan: (15:36)
5%? That’s a good chunk.

Elon Musk: (15:38)
It’s a good chunk. Yeah, yeah.

Joe Rogan: (15:39)
We were talking about that last time and you were trying to figure out when it was actually going to go live, when it’s actually going to be available. Are you testing on people right now?

Elon Musk: (15:50)
No, we’re not testing on people yet, but I think it won’t be too long. I think we may be able to implant a neural link in less than a year in a person I think.

Joe Rogan: (16:06)
When you do this, is there any tests that you have to do before you do something like this to see what percentage of people’s bodies are going to reject these things? Is there a potential for rejection?

Elon Musk: (16:20)
It’s a very low potential for rejection. I mean, you can think of it like people put in heart monitors and things for epileptic seizures and deep brain stimulation obviously like artificial hips and knees and that kind of thing. The probability of, I mean, so it’s well known what will cause rejection and what will not. It’s definitely harder when you’ve got something that is sort of reading and writing neurons that’s generating a current pulse and reading current pulses. That’s a little harder than say a passive device, but it’s still very doable. There are people who have primitive devices in their brains right now.

Joe Rogan: (17:15)
What kind of devices?

Elon Musk: (17:17)
Well, like deep brain stimulation, I think for Parkinson’s, has really changed people’s lives in a big way, which is kind of remarkable because it kind of like zaps your brain. It’s like kicking the TV type of thing. You think like man, kicking the TV shouldn’t work.

Joe Rogan: (17:38)
It does sometimes.

Elon Musk: (17:39)
Yeah, yeah.

Joe Rogan: (17:40)
The old TVs.

Elon Musk: (17:41)
It did.

Joe Rogan: (17:41)
My grandpa used to slap the top.

Elon Musk: (17:43)
For sure. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (17:44)
It would work sometimes.

Elon Musk: (17:45)
Yeah, so this deep brain stimulation implanted devices in the brain have changed people’s lives for the better like fundamentally.

Joe Rogan: (17:53)
Well, let’s talk about what you can talk about to what Neuralink is cause the last time you were here you really couldn’t discuss it. Then there was, I guess a press release or something that sort of outlined … [crosstalk 00:18:04]

Elon Musk: (18:03)
Oh yeah, sure, sure.

Joe Rogan: (18:04)
Yeah, that had happened quite a bit after the last time you were here. What exactly is it? How do you do, what happens if someone ultimately does get a Neuralink installed what will take place?

Elon Musk: (18:18)
Well, for version one of the device, it would be it basically implanted in your skull. It would be flush with your skull, so you basically take out a chunk of skull, put the Neuralink device in there. You’d insert the electrode threads very carefully into the brain and then you stitch it up and you wouldn’t even know that somebody has it. It can interface basically anywhere in your brain. It could be something that helps cure say eyesight, like returns your eyesight even if you’ve lost your optic nerve type of thing.

Joe Rogan: (19:10)
Really?

Elon Musk: (19:10)
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I mean, pretty much anything that it could, in principle, fix almost anything that is wrong with the brain. It could restore limb functionality, so if you’ve got an interface into the motor cortex and then an implant that’s like a microcontroller and near muscle groups, you could then create sort of a neural shunt that restores somebody who is a quadriplegic to full functionality. Like they can walk around and be normal.

Joe Rogan: (19:50)
Whoa.

Elon Musk: (19:52)
Yeah, maybe slightly better.

Joe Rogan: (19:54)
Slightly better?

Elon Musk: (19:55)
Over time, yes.

Joe Rogan: (19:56)
You mean with future iterations?

Elon Musk: (19:58)
Like the, you know, $6 million man. Although these days that doesn’t sound like much.

Joe Rogan: (20:01)
Right, that’s pretty cheap.

Elon Musk: (20:02)
Yeah. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (20:04)
$6 billion man.

Elon Musk: (20:05)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (20:07)
The hole would be small, how big would the hole be that you have to drill and then replace with this piece? It’s only one hole?

Elon Musk: (20:14)
Well, yeah, the device we’re working on right now is about, it’s about an inch in diameter. Your skull is pretty thick, by the way.

Joe Rogan: (20:26)
Mine is for sure.

Elon Musk: (20:27)
It might actually, literally, I mean if you’re a big guy, your skull is actually fairly thick. A skull is like seven to 14 millimeters.

Joe Rogan: (20:39)
Mines probably a couple of inches.

Elon Musk: (20:40)
A half inch. Half inch thick skull ish. Yeah, yeah, that’s a fair bit of like … We’ve got quite a coconut going on there. It’s not like some eggshell.

Joe Rogan: (20:51)
Oh yeah, I believe you.

Elon Musk: (20:55)
Yeah, you basically implant the device.

Joe Rogan: (20:58)
It would be like a one inch square? One inch in diameter, so an inch circle?

Elon Musk: (21:04)
Yeah, think like a smartwatch or something like that.

Joe Rogan: (21:08)
Oh, okay.

Elon Musk: (21:10)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (21:11)
Okay, so you take this one diameter like ice fishing, right? You ever go ice fishing?

Elon Musk: (21:16)
No, but I’d like to.

Joe Rogan: (21:17)
It’s great. It’s really fun, so you basically take an auger and you drill through the surface of the ice and you create a small hole. You can dunk your line in there. This is like that. You’re ice fishing on the top of your skull and then you cork it.

Elon Musk: (21:33)
Yeah, and you replace that say one inch diameter piece of skull with the Neuralink device and that has a battery and a Bluetooth and an inductive charger. Then you also insert the electrodes. The electrodes are very carefully inserted with a robot that we developed. It’s very carefully putting in the electrodes and avoiding any veins or arteries so it doesn’t create trauma.

Joe Rogan: (22:07)
Through this one inch diameter device, electrodes would be inserted and they will find their way …

Elon Musk: (22:13)
Like tiny wires, basically.

Joe Rogan: (22:14)
Tiny wires.

Elon Musk: (22:15)
Tiny wires.

Joe Rogan: (22:16)
They’ll find their way to specific areas of the brain to stimulate?

Elon Musk: (22:19)
No, you literally put them where they’re supposed to go.

Joe Rogan: (22:22)
Oh, okay.

Elon Musk: (22:23)
Yeah, you insert …

Joe Rogan: (22:25)
How long would these wires be?

Elon Musk: (22:27)
I mean, they usually go in like, depending on where it is, like two or three millimeters.

Joe Rogan: (22:37)
They just find the spots?

Elon Musk: (22:37)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (22:38)
Wow.

Elon Musk: (22:40)
Then you put the device in and that replaces the little piece of skull that was taken out. Then you stitch up the hole and they just look like a little scar and that’s it.

Joe Rogan: (22:58)
Would this be replaceable or reversible?

Elon Musk: (23:00)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (23:00)
Like if someone can’t take it anymore? I’m too smart, I can’t take it.

Elon Musk: (23:04)
Yeah, you can totally take it out.

Joe Rogan: (23:06)
Besides restoring limb function and eyesight and hearing, which are all amazing, is there any cognitive benefits that you anticipate from something like this?

Elon Musk: (23:16)
Yeah, I mean you could for sure, I mean, basically it’s a generalized sort of thing for fixing any kind of brain injury in principle, or if you’ve got like severe epilepsy or something like that. It could just sort of stop the epilepsy from occurring. It could detect it in real time and then fire a counter pulse and stop the epilepsy. I mean, there’s a whole range of brain injuries. Like if somebody gets a stroke, they could lose the ability to speak and that could also be fixed. If you’ve got like stroke damage or you lose say muscle control over part of your face or something like that. When you get older you tend to, if you’ve got like Alzheimer’s or something like that, then you lose memory and this could help you with restoring your memory and that kind of thing.

Joe Rogan: (24:19)
Restoring memory and what is happening that’s allowing it to do that? Like the wires, these small wires are stimulating these areas of the brain. Is it that the areas of the brain are losing some sort of electrical force? What is happening?

Elon Musk: (24:34)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (24:35)
Yeah?

Elon Musk: (24:35)
The thing is it’s like a bunch of circuits and there’s some circuits that are broken and we can fix those circuits. It’s a substitute for those circuits.

Joe Rogan: (24:49)
A specific frequency will go through this?

Elon Musk: (24:51)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (24:54)
Is the process figuring out how much or how little has to be, how much these areas of the brain have to be juiced up?

Elon Musk: (25:03)
Yeah. I mean, there’s still a lot of work to do. When I say we’ve got a shot at probably putting in a person within a year, that’s exactly what I mean. I think we have a chance of putting it into one and having them be healthy and restoring some functionality that they’ve lost.

Joe Rogan: (25:25)
The fear is that eventually you’re going to have to cut the whole top of someone’s head off and put a new top with a whole bunch of wires if you want to get the real turbo charged version. The P 100 D of brain stimulation.

Elon Musk: (25:45)
I mean, ultimately if you want to go with full AI symbiosis, you’ll probably want to do something like that.

Joe Rogan: (25:53)
Symbiosis is a scary word when it comes to AI.

Elon Musk: (25:57)
It’s optional.

Joe Rogan: (26:01)
I would hope so.

Elon Musk: (26:02)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (26:02)
It’s just, I mean, once you enjoy the Doctor Manhattan lifestyle, once you become a god seems very unlikely you’re going to want to go back to being stupid again. I mean, you literally could fundamentally change the way human beings interface with each other.

Elon Musk: (26:20)
Yes.

Joe Rogan: (26:21)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (26:22)
You wouldn’t need to talk.

Joe Rogan: (26:27)
I’m so scared of that, but so excited about it at the same time. Is that weird?

Elon Musk: (26:32)
Yeah, I think this is one of the paths to think like what are … Like AI is getting better and better. Now let’s assume it’s sort of like a benign AI scenario. Even in a benign scenario, we’re kind of left behind. We’re not along for the ride. We’re just too dumb.

Joe Rogan: (26:57)
Right.

Elon Musk: (26:59)
How do you go along for the ride? It’s like you can’t beat them, join them. We’re already a cyborg to some degree, right? Cause you’ve got your phone, you’ve got your laptop.

Joe Rogan: (27:12)
Glasses.

Elon Musk: (27:12)
Yeah, yeah. Your electronic devices.

Joe Rogan: (27:18)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (27:19)
Today, if you don’t bring your phone along it’s like you have missing limb syndrome. It feels like something’s really missing. We’re already partly a cyborg or an AI symbiote, essentially it’s just that the data rate to the electronics is slow. Especially output, like you’re just going with your thumbs. I mean like what’s your data rate? Optimistically, a hundred bits per second. That’s being generous.

Elon Musk: (27:58)
Now the computer can communicate at like a hundred terabytes. Certainly, you know, gigabits are trivial at this point. This is like, yeah, basically your computer could do things a million times faster. At a certain point it’s like talking to a tree. Okay? It’s just boring. You talk to a tree it’s not very entertaining. If you can solve the data rate issue and you’re especially output input, too, then you can improve the symbiosis that is already occurring between man and machine.

Joe Rogan: (28:49)
You can improve it in what, when you said you won’t have to talk to each other anymore. We used to joke around about that. I’ve joked around about that a million times in this podcast that one day in the future there’s going to come a time where you can read each other’s minds. You’ll be able to interface with each other in some sort of a nonverbal, non-physical way where you will transfer data back and forth to each other without having to actually use your mouth. You’ll make noises.

Elon Musk: (29:16)
Exactly, so when you … Like what happens when you, let’s say you’ve got some complex idea that you’re trying to convey to somebody else and how do you do that? Well, your brain spends a lot of effort compressing a complex concept into words and there’s a lot of loss, information loss that occurs when compressing a complex concept into words. Then you say those words and those words are then interpreted, then they’re decompressed by the person who is listening. They will, at best, get a very incomplete understanding of what you’re trying to convey. It’s very difficult to convey a complex concept with precision because you’ve got compression, decompression, you may not even have heard all the words correctly and so communication is difficult. What we have here is a failure to communicate. Cool add Luke.

Joe Rogan: (30:12)
Yes. Great movie.

Elon Musk: (30:14)
Yeah, great on.

Joe Rogan: (30:15)
There’s an interpretation factor, too. Like you can choose to interpret certain series of words in different ways and they’re dependent upon tone, dependent upon social cues, even facial expressions, sarcasm. There’s a lot of variables.

Elon Musk: (30:33)
Sarcasm is difficult.

Joe Rogan: (30:34)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (30:34)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (30:37)
One of the things that I’ve said is like that there could be potentially a universal language that’s created through computers that particularly young kids would pick up very quickly. Like, my kids do Tik Tok and all this jazz and I don’t know what they’re doing. They just know how to do it and they know how to do it really quickly. Like they learn really quickly and they show me how to edit things and it’s, if you taught a child from first grade on how to use some new universal language …

Joe Rogan: (31:03)
…from first grade on, how to use some new universal language. I mean essentially like a Rosetta Stone and something that’s done, that interprets your thoughts and you can convey your thoughts with no room for interpretation. With clear, very clear, where you know what a person’s saying and you could tell them what you’re saying. There’s no need for noises, no need for mouth noises.

Elon Musk: (31:27)
Yes.

Joe Rogan: (31:27)
No need for these accepted ways that we’ve evolved to make sounds that we all agree, through our cultural dictionary, and we agree. We could bypass all that.

Elon Musk: (31:42)
You can still do it for sentimental reasons.

Joe Rogan: (31:46)
Like campfires.

Elon Musk: (31:48)
Yeah, exactly. You don’t need campfire. Don’t need to roast marshmallows to have fun.

Joe Rogan: (31:52)
Right.

Elon Musk: (31:53)
So, yeah, I think you would, in principle you would be able to communicate very quickly and with far more precision ideas and language would, I’m not sure what would happen to language. You could probably in a situation like this, you would be able to just, it’d be kind of like the matrix. You want to speak a different language. No problem.

Joe Rogan: (32:21)
Right.

Elon Musk: (32:22)
Just download the program.

Joe Rogan: (32:25)
Right. So at least for the first iterations, first few iterations. I know that Google has some of their pixel buds have the ability to interpret languages in real time.

Elon Musk: (32:41)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (32:41)
Yeah. You can hear it and it’ll play things back to you in whatever language you choose. So it’d be something along those lines.

Elon Musk: (32:49)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (32:50)
For the first few iterations.

Elon Musk: (32:52)
Well the first few iterations are, what I’m talking about is in the limit over time, with a lot of development. The first few iterations really in the first few versions all we’re going to be trying to do is solve brain injuries. So, don’t worry. It’s not going to sneak up on you. This will take awhile.

Joe Rogan: (33:12)
How many years? Before you don’t have to talk.

Elon Musk: (33:20)
If the development continues to accelerate then maybe five years. Five to 10 years.

Joe Rogan: (33:31)
That’s quick. That’s really quick.

Elon Musk: (33:34)
That’s the best case scenario.

Joe Rogan: (33:35)
No talking anymore in five years.

Elon Musk: (33:37)
Best case scenario, but 10 years is more like it.

Joe Rogan: (33:41)
I’ve always speculated that aliens could potentially be us in the future because if you look at the size of their heads and the fact that they have very little muscle, they don’t use their mouth anymore. They have this tiny little, I mean the archetype of an alien that you see in like Close Encounters of the Third Kind.

Joe Rogan: (33:57)
They’re like if you went from australopithecus or ancient hominid to us, what’s the difference? Less hair, less muscle, bigger head and then just keep going. A thousand, a million, whatever year or five years, whatever. Whatever happens when Neuralink goes on online and then we slowly start to adapt to this new way of being where we don’t use our muscles anymore. We have this gigantic head, we can talk without words.

Elon Musk: (34:31)
You could also save state.

Joe Rogan: (34:36)
Save state?

Elon Musk: (34:37)
Save your brain state like a saved game in a video game.

Joe Rogan: (34:41)
Whoa. Like if you want to swap from Windows 95.

Elon Musk: (34:46)
Well, hopefully a little better than that. But, yeah.

Joe Rogan: (34:50)
I think we are Windows 95 right now.

Elon Musk: (34:54)
From a [inaudible 00:34:54] perspective probably. But yeah, I mean you could save state and restore that state into a biological being if you wanted to in the future in principle, nothing from a physics standpoint that prevents us. Now, you’d be a little different, but then you’re also a little different when you wake up in the morning from yesterday and you’re a little different. In fact, if you say like you five years ago versus you today is quite a big difference.

Joe Rogan: (35:18)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (35:19)
So you’d be substantially you. I mean you’d certainly think you’re you.

Joe Rogan: (35:23)
But the idea of saving yourself and then transforming that into some sort of a biological state, you can hang out with 30 year old you?

Elon Musk: (35:35)
I mean the possibilities are endless.

Joe Rogan: (35:40)
It’s so weird.

Elon Musk: (35:41)
I mean, just think like how your phone, you can record videos from your phone. There’s no way you could remember a video as accurately as your phone or a camera could. So now if you’ve got like some version 10 Neuralink, whatever and far in the future, you could recall everything, just like it’s a movie.

Joe Rogan: (36:05)
Crystal clear.

Elon Musk: (36:06)
Including all the entire sensory experience.

Joe Rogan: (36:09)
Emotions, everything.

Elon Musk: (36:10)
Everything.

Joe Rogan: (36:10)
Everything.

Elon Musk: (36:11)
Everything and play it back and in fact you can edit it.

Joe Rogan: (36:16)
Edit it?

Elon Musk: (36:17)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (36:17)
So you can change your past?

Elon Musk: (36:19)
You could change what you think was your past. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (36:22)
Well, so if you had a dramatic experience?

Elon Musk: (36:23)
This whole thing right now could be a replayed memory.

Joe Rogan: (36:27)
It could be.

Elon Musk: (36:28)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (36:28)
It may be. What’s the odds of this being a replayed memory? If you had a guess. More than 50%.

Elon Musk: (36:37)
There’s no way to assign a probability with accuracy here.

Joe Rogan: (36:40)
Right. But roughly, if you had a just gut instinct.

Elon Musk: (36:49)
Well, I don’t have a Neuralink in my brain, so I’d say right now 0%, but at the point at which you do have a Neuralink, then it rises above 0%.

Joe Rogan: (36:59)
The idea that we’re experiencing some sort of a preserved memory is, even though it’s still the same, it’s not comforting. Right? For some reason when people talk about simulation theory, they talk about the potential for this currently being a simulation. Even though your life might be wonderful, you might be in love, you might love your career, you might have great friends, but it’s not comforting to know that this experience somehow or another doesn’t exist in a material form that you can knock on.

Elon Musk: (37:34)
It feels real doesn’t it?

Joe Rogan: (37:37)
It feels real. But the idea that it’s not, for some strange reason, disconcerting.

Elon Musk: (37:45)
Yeah. I’m sure, it should be disconcerting because if this is not real, what is? But, there’s that old sort of thought experiment of like, how do you know you’re not a brain in a vent? I mean now here’s the thing. You are a brain in a vent, then that vat is your skull.

Joe Rogan: (38:04)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (38:05)
Everything you see, feel, hear, everything, all your senses are electrical signals, everything. Everything is an electrical signal to a brain in a vent with a vat as our skull.

Joe Rogan: (38:20)
All your hormones, all your neuro-transmitters, all these things are drugs. Adrenaline’s a drug. Dopamine is a drug. You’re a drug factory. You’re constantly changing your state with love and oxytocin and beauty.

Elon Musk: (38:35)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (38:36)
Changes your state. Great music changes your state.

Elon Musk: (38:38)
Absolutely. Yet, here’s another sort of interesting idea, which is, because you say like where did consciousness arise? Well, assuming you believe the belief in physics, which proves to be true, then the universe started off as basically quarks and leptons and it quickly became hydrogen and helium, lithium, basically elements of the periodic table. But it was mostly hydrogen basically. Then over a long period of time, 13.8 billion years later that hydrogen became sentient. What’s the line of consciousness and not consciousness between hydrogen and here?

Joe Rogan: (39:34)
When do we call it, when do we call it consciousness? I was watching a video today that we played on a podcast earlier of a monkey riding a motorcycle down the street, jumps off the motorcycle and tries to steal a baby.

Elon Musk: (39:45)
Yeah. I saw that one. It went viral.

Joe Rogan: (39:47)
Is that monkey conscious? It seems like it is. It seems like it had a plan. It was riding a fucking motorcycle and then jumped off the motorcycle to try to steal a baby.

Elon Musk: (39:58)
The one that just dragged the baby down the street pretty far?

Joe Rogan: (40:01)
Yeah. It seems pretty conscious, right?

Elon Musk: (40:05)
There’s definitely some degree of consciousness there.

Joe Rogan: (40:08)
Yeah. It’s not like a worm. It seems to be on another level. Yeah, and it’s going to keep going. That’s the real concern when people think about the potential future versions of human beings, especially when you consider symbiotic relationship to artificial intelligence, that will be unrecognizable.

Joe Rogan: (40:29)
That one day will be so far removed from what this is. We’ll look back on this, the way we look back now on simple organisms that we evolved from. That it won’t be that far in the future that we do have this view back.

Elon Musk: (40:47)
Well, I hope consciousness propagates into the future and it gets more sophisticated and complex and that it understands the questions to ask about the universe.

Joe Rogan: (40:58)
Do you think that’s the case? As a human being, as yourself, you’re clearly trying to make conscious decisions to be a better version of you. This is the idea of like getting rid of your possessions and realizing that you’re trying to like, “I don’t like this. I will try to improve this. I would try to do a better version of the way I interface with reality.” That this is always the way things are, if you’re moving in some sort of a direction where you’re trying to improve things, you’re always going to move into this new place where you look back on the old place and go, “I was doing it wrong back then.” So this is an accelerated version of that. A super accelerated version of that.

Elon Musk: (41:41)
I mean, you don’t always improve, but you can aspire to improve or you can aspire to be less wrong.

Joe Rogan: (41:46)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (41:47)
This is like, I think the tools of physics are very powerful. Just assume you’re wrong and your goal is to be less wrong. I don’t think you’re going to succeed every day in being less wrong, but if you’re going to succeed in being less wrong, most of the time you’re doing great.

Joe Rogan: (42:04)
That’s a great way of putting it. Aspire to be less wrong. But then when people look back in nostalgia about simpler times, there’s that too. It’s very romantic and exciting to look back on campfires.

Elon Musk: (42:18)
You can still have a campfire.

Joe Rogan: (42:19)
Yes. But will you appreciate it when you’re a super nerd? When you connect it to the grid and you have some skull cap in place of the top of your head and it’s interfacing with the international language that the rest of the universe now enjoys communication with people?

Elon Musk: (42:37)
Yeah. Sure. I think so. Yeah. I like campfires.

Joe Rogan: (42:43)
I’m just worried. I mean, everyone’s always scared of change, but I’m scared of this monumental change where we won’t talk anymore. I mean that thing that you [crosstalk 00:42:53].

Elon Musk: (42:55)
We’ll communicate.

Joe Rogan: (42:55)
Yes, but there’s something about the beauty of the crudeness of language where when it’s done eloquently, it’s satisfying and it hits us in some sort of a visceral way. Like, ah, that person nailed it. I love that they nailed it. That it’s so hard to capture a real thought and convey it in a way, in this articulate way. You read a quote, a great quote by a wise person. It makes you excited that their mind figured something out, put the words together in a right way that makes your brain pop like, “Oh yes. Yes.”

Elon Musk: (43:32)
It’s clever compression of a concept and a feeling.

Joe Rogan: (43:36)
But the fact that a human did it too.

Elon Musk: (43:38)
Yeah, absolutely.

Joe Rogan: (43:39)
Do you think that it will be like electronic music? Like people won’t appreciate it like they appreciate a slide guitar?

Elon Musk: (43:47)
I like electronic music.

Joe Rogan: (43:48)
I do too. Well you make it. I know you like it.

Elon Musk: (43:51)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (43:51)
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Elon Musk: (43:55)
Yeah, I mean I hope the future is more fun and interesting and we’re just trying to make it that way.

Joe Rogan: (44:01)
I hope it’s more fun and interesting too.

Elon Musk: (44:02)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (44:03)
I just hope we don’t lose anything along the way.

Elon Musk: (44:06)
We might lose a little, but hopefully we gain more than lose.

Joe Rogan: (44:11)
Yeah. That’s the thing, right? Gaining more than we lose. Something that makes us interesting is that we’re so flawed.

Elon Musk: (44:16)
It’s not for sure. Yeah. I mean you look at civilization through the ages, most of them they rose and fell.

Joe Rogan: (44:25)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (44:28)
I do think the globalization that we have, sort of like the meme sphere, is there’s not enough isolation between countries or regions. It’s like if you get, if there’s a mind virus that that mind virus can infect too much of the world. I actually sort of sympathize with the anti-globalization people, because it’s like, man, we don’t ever want everywhere to be the same for sure. Then we need some kind of mind viral immunity. So that’s a bit concerning.

Joe Rogan: (45:11)
Mind viral immunity, meaning that once something like Neuralink gets established, the real concern is something that, I mean you said it’s Bluetooth, right? Or some future version of that. The idea is that something could possibly get into it, fuck it up.

Elon Musk: (45:27)
No, I’m talking about like somebody, some cockeyed concept that happens right now.

Joe Rogan: (45:39)
Well I know this virus is in embedded chips, right? They’ve embedded chips and then acquired viruses.

Elon Musk: (45:46)
Well, when I’m talking about a mind virus, I’m talking about a concept that infects people’s minds.

Joe Rogan: (45:51)
Oh, okay. Okay. Like cult thinking or some sort of fundamentalism.

Elon Musk: (45:59)
Yeah. It’s just wrongheaded idea that goes viral in an idea sense.

Joe Rogan: (46:08)
Well that is a problem too, right? If someone can manipulate that technology to make something appear logical or rational.

Elon Musk: (46:16)
Yeah. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (46:18)
Would that be an issue too, this is a very have versus have not issue. If this really does, I mean initially it’s going to help people with injuries, but you said ultimately it could lead to this spectacular cognitive change.

Elon Musk: (46:35)
Yes.

Joe Rogan: (46:36)
But the people that first get it should have a massive advantage over people that don’t have it yet.

Elon Musk: (46:43)
Well, I mean it’s the kind of thing where your productivity would improve, I don’t know, dramatically, maybe by a factor of 10 with it. So you could definitely just, I don’t know, take out a loan and do it and earn the money back real fast. Be super smart.

Joe Rogan: (47:02)
Well in a capitalist society, it seems like you could really get so far ahead that before everybody else could afford this thing and link up and get connected as well. You’d be so far ahead, they can never catch you. Is that a concern?

Elon Musk: (47:19)
Well, it’s not a super huge concern. I mean there are huge differences in cognitive ability and resources already. You can think of a corporation as like a cybernetic collective that’s far smarter than an individual. I couldn’t personally build a whole rocket and the engines and launch it and everything. That’s impossible.

Elon Musk: (47:44)
But we have 8,000 people at SpaceX and you’re piecing it out to different people and using computers and machines and stuff. We can make lots of rockets launch into orbit, dock with the space station and that kind of thing. So that already exists where those corporations are vastly more capable than an individual. But we should be, I think less concerned about relative capabilities between people and more like having AI be vastly beyond us and decoupled from human will.

Joe Rogan: (48:38)
Decoupled from human. So this is the, if you can’t beat them, join them?

Elon Musk: (48:43)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (48:44)
So you feel like it’s inevitable, AI, essentially AI is essentially inevitable.

Elon Musk: (48:49)
Super sentient to AI. Yeah, like beyond a level that’s difficult to understand and impossible to understand probably.

Joe Rogan: (48:59)
Somehow or another, so it’s almost like it’s a requirement for survival to achieve some sort of symbiotic existence with AI.

Elon Musk: (49:13)
It’s not a requirement. It’s just if you want to be along for the ride then you need to do some kind of symbiosis. So the way your brain works right now, you’ve got kind of like the animal brain, reptile brain, kind of like the lymphic system basically. You’ve got the cortex. Now the brain purist will argue with this definition, but essentially you’ve got the primitive brain and you’ve got the sort of smart brain or the brain that’s capable of planning and understanding concepts and difficult things that a monkey can’t understand.

Elon Musk: (49:58)
Now your cortex is much, much smarter than your lymphic system. Nonetheless, they work together well. So I haven’t met anyone who wants to delete their lymphic system or their cortex. People are quite happy having both. So you can think of this as being like the computer, the AI is like a third layer, a tertiary layer. So that could be symbiotic with the cortex. It’d be much smarter than the cortex, but you essentially have three layers and you actually have that right now.

Elon Musk: (50:33)
Your phone is capable of things and your computer is capable of things that your brain is definitely not. Storing terabytes of information perfectly, doing incredible calculations that we couldn’t even come close to doing. You have that with your computer. It’s just like I said, the data rate is slow, the connection is weak.

Joe Rogan: (50:58)
Why is it so disconcerting or why does it not give me comfort to think about? Like when I think about a symbiotic connection to AI, I always think of this cold, emotionless sort of thing that we will become. Is that a bad way to look at it?

Elon Musk: (51:18)
I don’t think, that’s not how it would be. Like I said you already are symbiotic with AI or computers.

Joe Rogan: (51:26)
Phones, computers, laptops.

Elon Musk: (51:28)
Yeah, there’s quite a bit of AI going on, artificial neural nets. Increasingly, neural nets are sort of taking over from regular programming more and more. So you are connected, if you use Google Voice or Alexa or one of those things, it’s using a neural net to decode your speech and try understand what you were saying.

Elon Musk: (51:57)
If you’re trying to do image recognition or improve the quality of photograph, the neural nets the best way to do that. So you are already sort of a cybernetic symbiote. Like I said, it’s just a question of your data rate. The communication speed between your phone and your brain is slow.

Joe Rogan: (52:26)
When do you think you’re going to do it? How long will you wait? Once it starts becoming available?

Elon Musk: (52:35)
Yeah, if it works I’ll do it. Sure.

Joe Rogan: (52:38)
Right away.

Elon Musk: (52:39)
I mean let’s make sure it works.

Joe Rogan: (52:41)
How do we make sure it works? We try it on prisoners? What do you do? Take rapists? Cut holes in their head?

Elon Musk: (52:49)
No, like I said, if somebody has got a serious brain injury and people that have very severe brain injuries and then you can fix those brain injuries. Then you prove out that it works and [inaudible 00:53:06] expand and make more and more brain injuries, solve more and more. At a certain age we all are going to get Alzheimer’s or we’re all going to get senile. Then moms forget the names of their kids and that kind of thing.

Elon Musk: (53:20)
It’s like you said, okay, well this would allow you to remember your names of your kids and have a normal, a much more normal life where you were able to function much later in life. So I think essentially almost everyone would find a need at some point if you get old enough to use Neuralink. Then it’s like, okay, so we can improve the functionality and improve the communication speed. So then you will not have to use your thumbs to communicate with the computer.

Joe Rogan: (54:02)
Do you ever sit down and extrapolate? Do you ever sit down and think about all the different iterations of this and what this eventually leads to?

Elon Musk: (54:14)
Yeah, sure. I Think about it a lot. Like I said, this is not something that’s going to sneak up on you. Getting FDA approval for this stuff is not overnight. I don’t know, we probably have to be on version 10 or something before it would realistically be a human AI symbiote situation. You’ll see it coming.

Joe Rogan: (54:53)
You see it coming, but when do you think it’s going to be? When you’re alone, if you have free time, I don’t know if you have free time, but if you just sit down and think about this iteration, the next onward, keep going and you drag it out with improvements along the way and leaps and bounds and technological innovations. Where do you see it? What are we going to be?

Elon Musk: (55:19)
Like when?

Joe Rogan: (55:20)
20, 25 years from now? What are we going to be?

Elon Musk: (55:30)
Well, assuming civilization is still around, it’s looking fragile right now. I think we could have, in 25 years probably I would think there could be a whole brain interface.

Joe Rogan: (55:47)
A whole brain interface?

Elon Musk: (55:51)
Something pretty close to that. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (55:52)
What do you mean by whole brain interface?

Elon Musk: (56:00)
Almost all the neurons are connected to the sort of AI extension of yourself. If you want.

Joe Rogan: (56:16)
AI extension of yourself.

Elon Musk: (56:18)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (56:19)
What does that mean to you, when you say AI Extension of yourself?

Elon Musk: (56:25)
Well, like I said, you already have a computer extension of yourself and your phone and computers and stuff. So, and now online it’s like somebody dies, there’s like an online ghost that they’re still, their online stuff is still alive.

Joe Rogan: (56:41)
That’s a good way to put it. It is weird when you read someone’s tweets after they’re dead.

Elon Musk: (56:45)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (56:46)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (56:47)
Instagram and their stories and yeah, whatever Facebook and stuff.

Joe Rogan: (56:51)
That’s a great way to put it. It’s like an online ghost. That’s very accurate.

Elon Musk: (56:56)
Yeah. So it would just be that more of you would be in the cloud, I guess, than in your body or more of you.

Joe Rogan: (57:13)
Whoa. Now, when you say civilization’s fragile, do you mean because of this COVID-19 shit that’s going on right now?

Elon Musk: (57:21)
What’s that? I never heard of it.

Joe Rogan: (57:22)
It’s this thing, it’s like some people just get a cough.

Elon Musk: (57:25)
I have no idea what you’re talking about.

Joe Rogan: (57:26)
Other people it gets much worse.

Elon Musk: (57:29)
Sure. Well, yeah. I mean this certainly has taken over the mind space of the world to a degree that is quite shocking.

Joe Rogan: (57:45)
Yeah. Well, out of nowhere. That’s what’s crazy. It’s like you go back to November, nothing. Now here we are, December, January, February, March, April, May, six months. Totally different world. So from nothing to, everything’s locked down. There’s so much conflicting information and conflicting opinions about how to proceed. What has happened, you find things where there was a meat packing plant, I believe in Missouri where 300 plus people were asymptomatic, tested positive or asymptomatic.

Joe Rogan: (58:22)
Then in other places it just ravages entire communities and kills people and it’s so weird. It almost appears, if you didn’t know any better, you’d be like, what? It seems like there’s a bunch of different viruses. It doesn’t seem like it’s the same thing or has a bunch of different reactions to the biological variety of people.

Elon Musk: (58:45)
Yeah, I mean I kind of saw this whole thing play out in China before it played out in the US. So it’s kind of like watching the same movie again, but in English. Yeah, I think the mortality rate is much less than what say the World Health Organization said it was. It’s much, much less. It’s like probably at least order of magnitude less.

Joe Rogan: (59:24)
Well, it seems to be very deadly to very specific kinds of people and people with specific problems.

Elon Musk: (59:33)
Yeah. I mean, you can look at the mortality statistics by age and whether they have comorbidities, like do they have basically existing conditions and by age. If you’re below 60 and have no serious health issues, the probability of death is extremely low. It’s not zero, but it’s extremely low.

Joe Rogan: (01:00:00)
They didn’t think that this was the case though, when they first started to lock down the country. Do you think that it’s a situation where once they’ve proceeded in a certain way, it’s very difficult to correct course?

Elon Musk: (01:00:18)
It’s almost like people really wanted a panic. It’s quite crazy.

Joe Rogan: (01:00:24)
But in some places a panic is deserved, right? Like if you’re in the ICU in Manhattan and people are dying left and right and everyone’s on intubators. It seems like when you see all these people on ventilators and so many of them are dying and you see these nurses are dying and doctors are getting sick. In some places that fear is justified, but then in other places you’re reading these stories about hospitals that are essentially half empty. They’re having to furlough doctors and nurses because there’s no work for them.

Elon Musk: (01:01:01)
Most of the hospitals in the United States right now are half empty. In some cases they’re at 30% capacity.

Joe Rogan: (01:01:07)
Is this because they’ve decided to forgo elective procedures and normal things that people would have to go to the hospital for?

Elon Musk: (01:01:16)
Yes. I mean, we’re not talking about just some of these elective procedures are quite important. Like you have a bad heart.

Joe Rogan: (01:01:24)
Gall bladder disease, yeah, sure.

Elon Musk: (01:01:25)
You need a triple bypass. It’s sort of elective, but if you don’t get it done in time, you’re going to die.

Joe Rogan: (01:01:33)
Yeah, elective is a weird word.

Elon Musk: (01:01:35)
Elective. It’s not like, this isn’t like plastic surgery.

Joe Rogan: (01:01:40)
Right, right.

Elon Musk: (01:01:42)
It’s more like my hip is, I’m in extreme pain because my hip’s blown out or my knee and I don’t want to go to the hospital. I can’t go to the hospital. People are in extreme pain, people that need a kidney, people that have quite serious issues that are choosing not to go out of fear. So I think it’s a problem that’s not good.

Joe Rogan: (01:02:03)
It seems.

Elon Musk: (01:02:03)
So I think it’s a problem that’s not good.

Joe Rogan: (01:02:03)
It seems like the state of public perception is shifting.

Elon Musk: (01:02:06)
It is.

Joe Rogan: (01:02:07)
Like people are taking some deep breaths and relaxing and because of the statistics, essentially across the board it’s being recognized that it’s not as fatal as we thought it was. Still dangerous, still worse than a flu, but not as bad as we thought or we feared it could be.

Elon Musk: (01:02:28)
Objectively the mortality is much lower. At least a factor of 10, maybe a factor of 50 lower than initially thought.

Joe Rogan: (01:02:41)
Do you think that the current way we’re handling this, the social distancing, the mask, the locking down, does this make sense? Is it adequate? Or do you think that we should move back to at least closer to where we used to be?

Elon Musk: (01:03:00)
Well, I think proper hygiene is a good thing no matter what.

Joe Rogan: (01:03:03)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (01:03:03)
Wash your hands and if you’re coughing, stay at home or wear a mask because it’s not good. They do that in Japan. That’s normal. If you’re ill you wear a face mask and you don’t cough on people. I think that would be a great thing to adopt in general throughout the world. Washing your hands is also good.

Joe Rogan: (01:03:27)
Well there’s a speculation why men get it more than women because men are disgusting. We don’t wash our hands as much.

Elon Musk: (01:03:33)
Men are disgusting it’s true. It’s bad.

Joe Rogan: (01:03:33)
It’s true, I admit it, we are all men in this room. We’re all gross.

Elon Musk: (01:03:36)
Yeah. Just go to the restroom you can see it’s horrible.

Joe Rogan: (01:03:38)
Yes we’re gross. My nine year old daughter yells at me, she goes, “Did you wash your hands?” She makes me go back and wash my hands. She’s right. Nine years old. If I had a nine year old boy do you think he would care? He wouldn’t give a fuck if I washed my hands.

Elon Musk: (01:03:52)
True. And I think that there’s definitely some silver linings here in improved hygiene and-

Joe Rogan: (01:04:02)
And awareness of potential.

Elon Musk: (01:04:03)
Yes. I think this has shaken up the system. the system is somewhat moribund with lot of layers of bureaucracy and I think that we’ve cut through some of that bureaucracy. And at some point there probably will be a pandemic with a high mortality rate. Debate about like what’s high. but I mean something that’s killing a lot of 20 year olds, let’s say. Like if you had Ebola type of mortality.

Joe Rogan: (01:04:35)
Spanish flu, something that attacks the immune systems of healthy people.

Elon Musk: (01:04:38)
Yeah. Like killing large numbers of young healthy people, to find that as like a high mortality than that. This is at least practice for something like that. And I think there’s this, given it’s just a matter, that there will be eventually some such pandemic.

Joe Rogan: (01:05:05)
Do you think that in a sense, the one good thing that we might get out of this is the realization that this is a potential reality? That we got lucky in the sense?, I mean people that didn’t get lucky and died, of course I’m not disrespecting their death and their loss, but I’m saying overall as a culture, as a community, as a human race, as a community, this is not as bad as it could have been. This is a good dry run for us to appreciate that we need far more resources dedicated towards understanding these diseases, what to do in the case of pandemic, and much more money that goes to funding treatments and some preventative measures.

Elon Musk: (01:05:48)
Yeah, absolutely. And I think there’s a good chance, it’s highly likely, I think, coming out of this that we will develop vaccines that we didn’t have before for coronaviruses, other viruses, and possibly cures for these. And our understanding of viruses of this nature has improved dramatically because of the attention that it’s received. So there’s definitely a lot of silver linings here.

Joe Rogan: (01:06:24)
Potentially, if we act correctly.

Elon Musk: (01:06:26)
Yeah. I think there will be a massive lining of here no matter what. Hopefully we can be more of a silver lining than less.

Joe Rogan: (01:06:35)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:06:38)
So yeah, this is just kind of like a practice run for something that might in the future have a serious, like a really high mortality rate and we kind of got to go through this without it being something that kills vast numbers of young healthy people.

Joe Rogan: (01:06:59)
Yeah. When you made a series of tweets recently, I don’t remember the exact wording, but essentially you were saying, “Free America now.” Like, let’s open it back-

Elon Musk: (01:07:09)
That is the exact wording.

Joe Rogan: (01:07:10)
That is it? Thank you. How much do you pay attention to the response to that stuff and what was the response like? Did anybody go, “Hey man, what the fuck you doing?” Did anybody pull you aside?

Elon Musk: (01:07:22)
Yeah, of course.

Joe Rogan: (01:07:24)
Who does that? Who gets to do that to you?

Elon Musk: (01:07:28)
Well, I mean, I certainly get that. There’s no shortage of negative feedback on Twitter. I get it.

Joe Rogan: (01:07:33)
Oh yeah. Twitter. Yeah, but I don’t read that. Do you read it.

Elon Musk: (01:07:37)
It’s a war zone.

Joe Rogan: (01:07:38)
You do sometimes though, right? You do read it?

Elon Musk: (01:07:40)
Yeah. I mean, I scroll through the comments. Like I said, it’s a meme war zone.

Joe Rogan: (01:07:45)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:07:45)
I mean, people knife you good and thorough.

Joe Rogan: (01:07:47)
It’s something I enjoy about it. Something about the freedom of expression that comes from all these people that do attack you. It’s like, if there was no vulnerability whatsoever, they wouldn’t attack you. And it’s like there’s something about these millions and millions of perspectives that you have to appreciate, even if it comes your way, even if the shit storm hits you in the face.

Joe Rogan: (01:08:23)
You got to appreciate, “Wow. How amazing is it that all these people do have the ability to express themselves?” I mean, you don’t necessarily want to be there when the shit hits you. You might want to get out of the way in anticipation of the shit storm, but the fact that so many people have the ability to reach out. And I think it’s in a lot of ways it’s a, I don’t want to say a misused resource, but it’s like giving monkeys guns.

Joe Rogan: (01:08:47)
They just start, “Da, da, da.” T`hey start gunning down things that are in front of them without any realization of what they’re doing. They have a rock, they see a window, they throw it. “Whoo, look at that. I got Elon mad. Look at that. This guy got mad at me. I fucking took this person down on Twitter. I got this lady fired. Oh, the fucking business is going under because of Twitter Wars.” It seems like there’s something about it that’s this new found thing that, I don’t want to say abuse, but just, I want to say that it’s almost like you hit the button and things blow up. You’re like, “Wow, what else can we blow up?”

Elon Musk: (01:09:28)
Sure. I mean, I’ve been in the Twitter war zone for, for a while here, so.

Joe Rogan: (01:09:34)
Twitter war zone.

Elon Musk: (01:09:36)
And it takes a lot to phase me at this point.

Joe Rogan: (01:09:39)
Yeah, that’s good too. Right? Like you develop a thick skin.

Elon Musk: (01:09:44)
Yeah. You can’t take it personally. A lot of these people don’t actually know you. It’s like if you’re fighting a war and there’s like some opposing soldier that shoots at you, it’s not like they hate you. They don’t even know you.

Joe Rogan: (01:10:00)
Right.

Elon Musk: (01:10:00)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:10:01)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:10:01)
So just think of it like that. Like they have fire and bullets, whatever. But they don’t know you, so don’t take it personally.

Joe Rogan: (01:10:08)
There’s something interesting about it too. When you write something in 280 characters and they write something, it’s such a crude way. It’s like someone sending opposing smoke signals. Your smoke signals. It’s so crude. And especially when you’re talking about something like Neuralink. You’re talking about some future potential where you’re going to be able to express pure thoughts that get conveyed through some sort of a universal language with no ambiguity whatsoever versus tweets.

Elon Musk: (01:10:45)
Well, there will always be some ambiguity, but tweets, it’s hard. But maybe there should be like a sarcasm flag or something.

Joe Rogan: (01:10:54)
Right, right.

Elon Musk: (01:10:55)
Or a “just kidding” or-

Joe Rogan: (01:10:57)
It seems like it would take away some of the fun from people that know it’s sarcasm. Like if everybody knew that The Onion wasn’t, if you sent people articles. It was something about someone getting angry and an Onion article.

Elon Musk: (01:11:12)
Wow, that’s amazing.

Joe Rogan: (01:11:13)
You know what I mean? Where they don’t realize what it is. There’s something fun about that for everybody else.

Elon Musk: (01:11:18)
Yeah, I think it’s pretty great. It might be the best news source.

Joe Rogan: (01:11:23)
Do you know who Titania McGrath is? It’s Andrew Boyle. He’s a British fellow. Brilliant guy who’s been on the podcast before and he has this a fictional character, this a pseudonym Titania McGrath who’s like the ultimate social justice warrior.

Elon Musk: (01:11:42)
Is this, like, a female avatar.

Joe Rogan: (01:11:45)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (01:11:45)
Oh, okay.

Joe Rogan: (01:11:45)
A female avatar that’s actually a computer conglomeration of a bunch of faces. It’s not really one person. So, one person can’t be a victim and be angry, but he’s sort of combined these faces to make this one perfect social justice warrior. But I recognized it early on before I met him. That this was parody. This was just fun. And then I love reading the people that don’t recognize that. They get angry. And there’s a lot of people that just get really furious. There’s some fun to that. There’s some fun to the not picking up on the true nature of the signal.

Elon Musk: (01:12:29)
I find Twitter quite engaging.

Joe Rogan: (01:12:31)
How do you have the time?

Elon Musk: (01:12:34)
Well, I mean like five minutes every couple of hours type thing. It’s not like I’m sitting on it all day.

Joe Rogan: (01:12:40)
But even five minutes every couple hours, if those are bad five minutes, they might be bouncing around your head for the next 30.

Elon Musk: (01:12:48)
Yeah, you have to, like I said, take a certain amount of distance from… You read this and be like, “Okay, it’s bullets being fired by an opposing army.” Like I said, it’s not like they know you. Don’t take it personally.

Joe Rogan: (01:13:05)
Did you feel the same way when CNN had that stupid shit about ventilators with you? I found that both confusing and-

Elon Musk: (01:13:15)
Yeah. That was annoying.

Joe Rogan: (01:13:16)
It was annoying.

Elon Musk: (01:13:17)
It was wrong.

Joe Rogan: (01:13:18)
What is also annoying as a person who reads CNN and wants to think of them as a responsible conveyor of the facts. I would like to think that-

Elon Musk: (01:13:26)
Well, yeah. I don’t think CNN is that.

Joe Rogan: (01:13:26)
I think used to be used to be.

Elon Musk: (01:13:28)
Used to be, yeah. What do you think’s the best source of just information out there?

Joe Rogan: (01:13:38)
That’s a good question.

Elon Musk: (01:13:40)
Let’s say you’re just the average citizen trying to just get the facts, figure out what’s going on. How to live your life and just looking for what’s going on in the world. It’s hard to find something that’s good.

Joe Rogan: (01:14:01)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:14:03)
Not trying to push some partisan angle, not trying to not doing sloppy reporting, and just aim it for the most number of clicks and trying to maximize ad dollars and that kind of thing. You’re just trying to figure out what’s going on. It’s like, I’m hard pressed. Where do you go?

Joe Rogan: (01:14:21)
I don’t know. I don’t think there’s any pure form. My favorite places are the New York times and the LA times and I don’t trust them a hundred percent. Because also, there’s individuals that are writing these stories. And that’s seems to be the problems, these individual biases and these individual, there’s purposely distorted perceptions, and then there’s ignorantly reported facts, and there’s so many variables. And you got to put everything through this filter of, “Where’s this person coming from? Did they have political biases? Did they have social biases? Are they upset because of their own shortcomings? And are they projecting this into the story?” It’s so hard.

Elon Musk: (01:15:06)
Yeah. I think maybe just trying to find individual reporters that you think are good and kind of following them as opposed to publication.

Joe Rogan: (01:15:13)
I go with whatever Matt Taibbi says.

Elon Musk: (01:15:15)
Okay.

Joe Rogan: (01:15:16)
I trust him more than anybody.

Elon Musk: (01:15:17)
All right.

Joe Rogan: (01:15:18)
Matt Taibbi is onto something. As far as investigative reporters in particular, the way he reported the savings and loan crisis, the way he reports everything. I just listened to him above most above most. He’s my go to guy.

Elon Musk: (01:15:33)
All right. I’ll check it out.

Joe Rogan: (01:15:34)
Oh, his Rolling Stone articles are amazing. His stuff on the savings and loan crisis, it’s just like, “What in the fuck?” And he’s not an economist by any stretch of the imagination. So he had to really deeply embedded himself in that world to try to understand it and to be able to report on it. And with also with a humorous flare.

Elon Musk: (01:15:52)
Now that’s nice.

Joe Rogan: (01:15:53)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:15:56)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:15:56)
There’s not that many of them. It’s hard. And not a location where like, we are no bullshit. Wearenobullshit.com like the one place where you can say, “This is what we know, this is what we don’t know. This is what we think.” Not, “This person’s wrong and here’s why.” Like, ah, God damn it. I can’t. You don’t know. There’s a lot of stuff that is open to interpretation.

Joe Rogan: (01:16:24)
This particular coronavirus issue that we’re dealing with right now seems to be a great illuminator of that very fact. Is that there’s so much data. And there’s so much that’s open to interpret. There’s so many thing… because it’s all happening in real time. Right? And particularly right now in California, we’re in stage two Friday, two days from now. Stage two. Retail stores opening up.

Joe Rogan: (01:16:49)
Things are changing. Like, no one knows the correct process that needs to take place to save the most amount of lives, but yet ensure that our culture and that our economy survives. It’s a lot of speculation and guessing. But if you go to certain places, they’ll tell you, “We know why, and we know this, and we know…” Oh, it’s hard.

Elon Musk: (01:17:15)
Yeah. I mean, in general I think we should be concerned about anything that’s a massive infringement on us. Civil liberties.

Joe Rogan: (01:17:26)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (01:17:26)
So, you got to put a lot of weight on that. A lot of people died to win independence for the country and fight for the democracy that we have. And we should treasure that and not give up our liberties too easily. And I think we probably did that, actually. So.

Joe Rogan: (01:17:48)
Well, I like what you said when you said that it should be a choice and that to require people to stay home, require people to not go to work, and to arrest people for trying to make a living. This all seems wrong. And I think it’s a wrong approach. It’s an infantilization of the society. That daddy’s going to tell you what to do.

Elon Musk: (01:18:14)
Fundamentally a violation of the constitution. Freedom of assembly and it’s just, I don’t think these things stand up in court, really.

Joe Rogan: (01:18:24)
They’re arresting people for protesting because they’re protesting and violating social distancing, and these mandates that tell people that they have to stay home.

Elon Musk: (01:18:33)
Yeah. These would definitely not stand up if the Supreme court… It’s obviously a complete violation of rights.

Joe Rogan: (01:18:41)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:18:42)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:18:42)
And again, this is not in any way disrespecting the people who have died from this disease. That’s certainly a real thing to think of.

Elon Musk: (01:18:51)
Yeah. I mean it just should be if you’re at risk, you should not be compelled to leave your house or leave a place of safety, but if you’re not at risk, or if you are at risk and you wish to take a risk with your life, you should have the right to do that.

Joe Rogan: (01:19:07)
And it seems like at this point in time, particularly, our resources would be best served protecting the people that are at risk versus penalizing the people that are not at high risk for living their life the way they did, particularly having a career, and making a living, and feeding your family, paying your bills, keeping your store open, keeping your restaurant open.

Elon Musk: (01:19:30)
Yes. I mean, there’s a strong downside to this. So yeah, I just believe this is a free country. You should be allowed to do what you want as long as it does not endanger others.

Joe Rogan: (01:19:46)
But that’s the thing, right? This is the argument they will bring up. You are endangering others. You should stay home for the people that that, even if you’re fine, even if you know you’re going to be okay, there’s certain people that will not be okay because of your actions. They might get exposed to this thing that we don’t have a vaccine for, we don’t have a universally accepted treatment for, and then we need to… There’s two arguments, right?

Joe Rogan: (01:20:12)
One argument is we need to keep going, protect the weak, protect the sick, but let’s open up the economy. The other argument is stop placing money over human lives and let’s shelter in place until we come up with some sort of a decision and let’s figure out some way to develop some sort of a universal income, universal basic income plan, or something like that, to feed people during this time while we make this transition.

Elon Musk: (01:20:41)
Yeah. I think there’s a, as I said, my opinion is if somebody wants stay home, they should stay home. If somebody doesn’t want to stay home, they should not be compelled to stay home. That’s my opinion. If somebody doesn’t like that, well that’s my opinion. This notion though, that you can just sort of send checks out to everybody and things will be fine is not true.

Elon Musk: (01:21:08)
Obviously several have this absurd view that the economy is like some magic horn of plenty. Like it just makes stuff. There’s just a magic horn of plenty and the goods and services, they just come from this magic horn of plenty. And then if somebody has more stuff than somebody else it’s because they took more from this magic horn of plenty. Now let me just break it to the fools out there.

Elon Musk: (01:21:38)
If you don’t make stuff, there’s no stuff. Yeah. So, if you don’t make the food, if you don’t process the food, you don’t transport the food, medical treatment, getting your teeth fixed, there’s no stuff. They’ve become detached from reality. You can’t just legislate money and solve these things. If you don’t make stuff, there is no stuff, obviously. we’ll run out of the stores, run out of the… the machine just grinds to a halt.

Joe Rogan: (01:22:29)
But the initial thought on this virus, the real fear was that this was going to kill hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people, instantaneously in this country. It was going to do it very quickly if we didn’t hunker down, if we didn’t shelter in place, if we didn’t quarantine ourselves, or lock down. Do you think that the initial thought was a good idea based on the perception that this was going to be far more deadly than it turned out to be?

Elon Musk: (01:23:00)
Maybe. I think briefly.

Joe Rogan: (01:23:02)
Briefly?

Elon Musk: (01:23:03)
Briefly, but I think if any kind of sensible examination of what happened in China would lead you to conclusion that that is obviously not going to occur. This virus retreated in Wuhan. There’s was like, I don’t know, hundred thousand people a day leaving Wuhan. So, it went everywhere very fast throughout China, throughout the rest of the world, and the fatality rate was low.

Joe Rogan: (01:23:34)
Don’t you think though, it’s difficult to filter the information that’s coming out of China. To accurately, really get a real true representation of what happened. The propaganda machine is very strong. The World Health Organization appears to have been complicit with a lot of their propaganda.

Elon Musk: (01:23:57)
The thing is that American companies have massive supply chains in China. Like Tesla, for example. We have hundreds of suppliers. Like tier one, two, three, four suppliers throughout China. So, we know if they are able to make stuff or not. We know if they, if they have issues or not. China is back at full steam and pretty much every US company has some significant number of suppliers in China. So you know if they’re able to provide things or not or if there’s high mortality rate. Tesla has like 7,000 people in China. So, zero people died.

Joe Rogan: (01:24:45)
Mm-hmm (affirmative).

Elon Musk: (01:24:46)
Zero.

Joe Rogan: (01:24:48)
Okay. So that’s a real statistic that’s coming from-

Elon Musk: (01:24:51)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:24:52)
Yeah. You know those people.

Elon Musk: (01:24:53)
Yeah. We literally run payroll.

Joe Rogan: (01:24:55)
Do you think there’s a danger of this… Yeah?

Elon Musk: (01:24:57)
I’m like-

Joe Rogan: (01:24:59)
Same folks are there

Elon Musk: (01:25:00)
Yeah. Still there.

Joe Rogan: (01:25:01)
Do you think there’s a danger of politicizing this? Where this becomes like opening up the country as Donald Trump’s, it’s his goal and then anything he does, there’s people that are going to oppose it and come up with some reasons why he’s wrong, particularly in this climate, where as we’re leading up to November and the 2020 elections. Do you think that this is a real danger in terms of public’s perception that Trump wants to open it up so they knee jerk oppose it because they oppose Trump?

Elon Musk: (01:25:34)
I think this has been politicized in both directions, really. Which is not great. Yeah. But like I said [inaudible 01:25:54] I think there’s the question of where do civil liberties fit in this picture? And what can the government make you do, what can they make you not do, and what’s okay? And I think we went too far.

Joe Rogan: (01:26:15)
Do you think it’s one of those things where once we’ve gone in this certain direction, it’s very difficult to make a correction? Make an adjustment to realize like, okay, we thought it was one thing. It’s not good, but it’s not what we thought it was going to be. It’s not what we feared, so let’s back up, and reconsider, and let’s do this publicly and say we were acting based on the information that we had initially. That information appears to be faulty and here’s how we move forward while protecting civil liberties, while protecting what essentially this country is founded on, which is a very agreed upon amount of freedom that we respect and appreciate.

Elon Musk: (01:26:58)
Absolutely. Well, I think we’re rapidly moving towards opening up the country. It’s going to happen extremely fast over the next few weeks. So, yeah. Something that would be helpful just to add from an informational level is when reporting Covid cases to separate out diagnosed with Covid versus had Covid like symptoms.

Joe Rogan: (01:27:27)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (01:27:29)
Because the list of symptoms that could be Covid at this point is like a mile long. So, it’s hard to, if you’re ill at all it’s like you could recover it. So, just to give people better information. Definitely diagnosed with Covid or had Covid like symptoms. We’re conflating those two so that it looks bigger than it is. Then if somebody dies, was Covid a primary cause of the death or not? I mean, if somebody has Covid, gets eaten by a shark, we find their arm, their arm has Covid, it’s going to get recorded as a Covid death.

Joe Rogan: (01:28:09)
Is that real?

Elon Musk: (01:28:11)
Basically.

Joe Rogan: (01:28:11)
Not that bad, but heart attacks, strokes-

Elon Musk: (01:28:15)
You get hit by a bus.

Joe Rogan: (01:28:15)
Cancer.

Elon Musk: (01:28:16)
If you get hit by a bus, go to the of the hospital and die, and they find that you have Covid, you will be recorded as a Covid death.

Joe Rogan: (01:28:24)
Why would they do that though?

Elon Musk: (01:28:27)
Well right now, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I mean, it’s mostly paved with bad intentions, but there’s some good intentions [inaudible 01:28:37] in there, too. And the stimulus bill that was intended to help with the hospitals that were being overwrought with Covid patients created an incentive to record something as Covid that is difficult to say no to, especially if your hospital’s going bankrupt for lack of other patients. So, the hospitals are in a bind right now. There’s a bunch of hospitals, they’re furloughing doctors, as you were mentioning. If your hospital’s half full, it’s hard to make ends meet. So now you’ve got like, “If I just check this box, I get $8,000. Put them on a ventilator for five minutes, I get $39,000 back. Or, I got to fire some doctors.” So, this is tough moral quandary. It’s like, what are you going to do? That’s the situation we have.

Joe Rogan: (01:29:36)
What the way out of this? What do you think is, if you had the president’s ear, or if people wanted to just listen to you openly, what do you think is the way out of this?

Elon Musk: (01:29:46)
Let’s clear up the data. Clear up the data. So like I said, somebody should be recorded as Covid only if somebody has been tested. Has has received a positive, positive Covid test. Not if they simply have symptoms, one of like a hundred symptoms. And then if it is a Covid death, it must be separated. Was Covid a primary reason for death, or did they also have stage three cancer, or heart disease, emphysema, and got hit by bus and had Covid?

Joe Rogan: (01:30:16)
Yeah. I’ve read all this stuff about them diagnosing people as a Covid death despite other variables.

Elon Musk: (01:30:26)
This is not a question. This is what is occurring.

Joe Rogan: (01:30:31)
And where are you reading this from? Where are you getting this from?

Elon Musk: (01:30:38)
The public health officials have literally said this. This is not a question mark.

Joe Rogan: (01:30:39)
Right. But this is unprecedented, right? If someone had the flu but also had a heart attack, they would assume that that person died of a heart attack.

Elon Musk: (01:30:47)
Yes.

Joe Rogan: (01:30:48)
Yeah. So this is unprecedented. Is this because this is such a popular, I don’t want to use that word the wrong way, but that’s what I mean, popular subject? And financial incentives.

Elon Musk: (01:31:01)
Yes. And like I said, this is not some sort of a moral [inaudible 01:31:07] of hospital administrators. It’s just, they’re in it. They’re in a tough spot here. They actually don’t have enough patients to pay everyone without furloughing doctors and firing staff. They’re running potentially going bankrupt. So then they’re like, “Okay, well the stimulus bill says we get all this money if it’s a Covid death.” I’m like, “Okay. They coughed before they died.” In fact, they’re not even diagnosed with Covid. If you had weakness, a cough, shortness of breath. Frankly, I’m not sure how you die without those things.

Joe Rogan: (01:31:51)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:31:52)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:31:53)
Right. There’s so many different things that you could attribute to Covid, too. There’s so many symptoms. There’s diarrhea, headaches, dehydration, cough.

Elon Musk: (01:32:03)
Yes. But to be clear, you don’t even need to have gotten a Covid diagnosis. You simply need to have had one of many symptoms and then have died for some reason and it’s Covid. So, then it makes the death count look very high and we’re then stuck in a bind because it looks like the death count’s super high and not going down like it should be. So then, we should keep whatever, keep the shelter in place stuff there, and keep people in their homes, confine people to homes. So we need to break out of this. We’re stuck in a loop. And I think the way to break out of this loop is to have clarity of information.

Joe Rogan: (01:32:51)
The clarity of information will certainly help, but altering perceptions, public perception, from people that are basically in a panic, there’s a lot of, essentially, well, at least a month ago-

Joe Rogan: (01:33:03)
…there’s a lot of, essentially… Well at least a month ago, we’re clearly in a panic. I mean, when you look around April 5th, April 6th, people were really freaking out. But here we are May, and May people are relaxing a little bit.

Elon Musk: (01:33:17)
Yes.

Joe Rogan: (01:33:17)
They’re realizing like, “Hey, I actually know a couple of people that got it. It was just a cough,” and I know some people that got it where nothing happened.

Elon Musk: (01:33:24)
I know a lot of people who got it. I know zero people who died, but I know a lot of people that got it.

Joe Rogan: (01:33:34)
It’s not what we feared. We feared something much worse.

Elon Musk: (01:33:38)
That is correct.

Joe Rogan: (01:33:39)
So the adjustment’s difficult to make. So you said, first of all we need real data. We need-

Elon Musk: (01:33:44)
Just parse out the data. Don’t lump it all together. If you give people, just parse out the data better, clearer information about, like I said, was this an actual COVID diagnosis? Did they get the test and the test came back positive or do they just have some symptoms? Just parse those two out, and then parse out just, if somebody died, did they even have a COVID test or did they just have one of many symptoms. How do you die without weakness? I don’t know. It’s impossible, basically.

Joe Rogan: (01:34:22)
Of course. Yeah, it’s a good point.

Elon Musk: (01:34:23)
If you’re going to die, you’re going to have shortness of breath, weakness and you might cough a little.

Joe Rogan: (01:34:29)
So was it quantified? Was it?

Elon Musk: (01:34:31)
Yeah, did that person, did they actually have a COVID test and the test come back positive? And then if they died, did they die where COVID was… It doesn’t have to be the main cause, but it was a significant contributor to their death or was it not a significant contributor to the death?

Joe Rogan: (01:34:50)
Right. It’s not as simple as just because you had COVID, covert, killed you.

Elon Musk: (01:34:55)
Definitely not.

Joe Rogan: (01:34:56)
Right.

Elon Musk: (01:34:57)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:34:57)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:34:58)
I mean, people die all the time and they have like flu and other colds and we don’t say that they died of those flu and other colds.

Joe Rogan: (01:35:04)
Well, that’s what’s so weird about this.

Elon Musk: (01:35:05)
It’s absurd.

Joe Rogan: (01:35:06)
It’s so popular and I use that word in a weird way, but it’s so popular that we’ve kind of forgotten people die of pneumonia every day.

Elon Musk: (01:35:15)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:35:15)
People die of… The flu didn’t take a break. “Oh, COVID’s got this. I’m going to sit this one out. I’m going to be on the bench. I’m going to wait until COVID’s done before I jump back into the game of killing people.” No, the flu is still here killing people.

Elon Musk: (01:35:29)
I mean, every year in the world, several hundred thousand people die directly of the flu.

Joe Rogan: (01:35:33)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:35:34)
Not tangentially.

Joe Rogan: (01:35:36)
Right.

Elon Musk: (01:35:36)
Not every-

Joe Rogan: (01:35:37)
61,000 in this country last year.

Elon Musk: (01:35:40)
Yeah. And we’re only 5% of the world.

Joe Rogan: (01:35:42)
And then there’s cigarettes.

Elon Musk: (01:35:43)
So, oh man, cigarettes. Now cigarettes will really kill you.

Joe Rogan: (01:35:46)
That’s a weird one. Right? We’re terrified of this disease that we’re projected. It could potentially kill 100,000 if not 200,000 Americans this year. But With cigarettes kill 500,000 and you don’t hear a peep out of any politician. There’s no one running for Congress that’s trying to ban cigarettes. There’s no one running for Senate that wants to put some education plan in place that’s going to stop cigarettes in their tracks.

Elon Musk: (01:36:11)
Yeah. I mean, several years ago, or maybe longer, 10 years ago, I helped make a movie called Thank You for Smoking.

Joe Rogan: (01:36:19)
Oh, I saw that.

Elon Musk: (01:36:20)
Yeah. It’s, it’s crazy. Barbecuing your lungs is just bad news. It’s not good. Turning your lungs into smoked beef, not great. So yeah. Tylenol, by the way, also kills a lot of people.

Joe Rogan: (01:36:49)
What is the number for Tylenol every year?

Elon Musk: (01:36:52)
I’m not sure the exact number. But until the opioid crisis, I believe Tylenol was the number one killer of all drugs.

Joe Rogan: (01:36:59)
Wow.

Elon Musk: (01:37:00)
Because basically, if you get drunk and take a lot of Tylenol, acetaminophen, essentially it causes liver failure. So people would like get wasted and then have a headache and then pop a ton of Tylenol, its curtains.

Joe Rogan: (01:37:18)
Wow.

Elon Musk: (01:37:19)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:37:19)
Curtains is a funny word.

Elon Musk: (01:37:22)
Yeah. But nobody’s, raging against Tylenol.

Joe Rogan: (01:37:26)
Yeah. It’s weird. Acceptable deaths are weird. And that’s the slippery slope about this. People shaming people for wanting to go back to work. “And other people are going to die.” Well, if you drive, do you drive? [inaudible 01:37:40] you should stop driving because people die from driving. So you, you definitely should fill up all the swimming pools because like 50 people die every day in this country from swimming. So let’s not swim anymore.

Elon Musk: (01:37:53)
Yeah, water is really dangerous.

Joe Rogan: (01:37:55)
We need to chop down all the coconut trees.

Elon Musk: (01:37:56)
Stop water.

Joe Rogan: (01:37:57)
Coconuts kill 150 people every year.

Elon Musk: (01:37:59)
Yes.

Joe Rogan: (01:37:59)
Cut down all the coconut trees. We need those people.

Elon Musk: (01:38:02)
Yes.

Joe Rogan: (01:38:02)
It’s, at a certain point in time, it’s… Yeah, we’re vulnerable and also, we have a finite existence no matter what.

Elon Musk: (01:38:12)
We do. Nobody lives forever.

Joe Rogan: (01:38:14)
Right.

Elon Musk: (01:38:16)
I mean I think, you want to look at say deaths as like the, “but for this disease, whatever, they would have lived X number of years.”

Joe Rogan: (01:38:25)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:38:25)
So, if somebody dies when they’re 20 and could have lived till 80, they lost 60 years. But if somebody dies when they’re 80 and they might’ve lived till 81 they lost one year.

Joe Rogan: (01:38:37)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (01:38:37)
So it’s, “How many life years were lost” is probably the right metric to use.

Joe Rogan: (01:38:45)
I don’t read my own comments, but I do read other people’s comments. And I was reading this one little Twitter beef that was going on where someone was saying that COVID takes an average of 10 years off people’s lives and we should appreciate those 10 years. And then someone else said-

Elon Musk: (01:39:00)
It’s not true.

Joe Rogan: (01:39:01)
I’m sure it’s not true.

Elon Musk: (01:39:01)
Yeah definitely not.

Joe Rogan: (01:39:02)
It’s the Twitter, it’s the world.

Elon Musk: (01:39:03)
Oh my god.

Joe Rogan: (01:39:04)
But someone else said “The average age of people who die from COVID is older than the average age people die.”

Elon Musk: (01:39:13)
Let’s just say, it’s about the same.

Joe Rogan: (01:39:16)
That’s a beautiful way of looking at it. I mean it’s unfortunate. It sucks, but it sucks if grandpa dies of Alzheimer’s or emphysema or leukemia. It sucks. It sucks when someone you love dies.

Elon Musk: (01:39:29)
Yes. I mean actually, I think a lesson to be taken here that I think is quite important is that, if you have your grandparents and that they’re age of grandparents, really be careful with, any kind of flu or cold or something that that is not dangerous to kids or young adults, but is dangerous to the elderly. Basically, if your kid’s got a runny nose, they should stay away from their grandparents, no matter what it is. There’re things where a young immune system has no problem, an older one has a problem. In fact a lot of the deaths are literally, it’s tragic, but they’re, they’re intra-family. It’s, the little kid had a cold or flu and they [crosstalk 01:40:31].

Joe Rogan: (01:40:31)
Give it to grandpa.

Elon Musk: (01:40:32)
Yeah. They had the family gathering. And they don’t know that this is a big deal. But it’s just important to remember when you get old, your immune system’s just not that strong. And so, just be careful with your loved ones who are elderly.

Joe Rogan: (01:40:48)
And I think there is some true objective understanding of the immune system and the ways to boost that immune system. And I really think that information should be distributed in a way, a nonjudgmental way, but like, “Look, this is a scientifically proven way that we can boost our immune system and it might save your life and it might save the life of your loved ones.” And maybe we could teach this to our grandparents and our parents and people that are vulnerable, vitamin C, heat shock proteins, all these different variables that we know contribute to a stronger immune system.

Elon Musk: (01:41:30)
Yeah. Actually, just a thing that is tough. As you get older, you tend to put on weight, certainly that’s happening with me. The older I get like, “Damn, sure harder to stay lean.” That’s for sure. And so, actually, being overweight is a big deal. It’s a fact. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:00)
The New York hospital said it was the number one factor for severe COVID symptoms was obesity. That was the number one factor.

Elon Musk: (01:42:08)
That’s correct. It is, yes, exactly.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:12)
But it’s also, we live in a world where people want to be sensitive to other people’s feelings.

Elon Musk: (01:42:18)
Yeah, absolutely.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:19)
So they don’t want to bring up the fact that being fat’s bad for you. It’s a judgmental on your…

Elon Musk: (01:42:25)
Food’s great.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:26)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:42:26)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:27)
I do love food.

Elon Musk: (01:42:28)
Yeah. I mean to be totally frank, I mean, speaking for myself, I’d rather read tasty food and live a shorter life.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:37)
Yeah. Those moments of enjoying a great meal.

Elon Musk: (01:42:40)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:41)
And then even talking about it, they’re valuable. They’re worth something. Yeah. We don’t want to eat Soylent Green and live to be 160.

Elon Musk: (01:42:47)
No. Tasty food is great, it’s one of the best things about life.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:53)
It really is. Yeah. It’s an art form as well.

Elon Musk: (01:42:55)
Yeah, absolutely.

Joe Rogan: (01:42:55)
It’s like fine food, it’s a delicious sandcastle. It’s temporary. It doesn’t last very long. But there’s something about it that’s very pleasing.

Elon Musk: (01:43:08)
Yeah. I don’t know what advice to give, maybe having tasty food but smaller amounts of it.

Joe Rogan: (01:43:19)
Yeah. And I think, regulated feeding windows, really the way to go, some sort of an intermittent fasting approach.

Elon Musk: (01:43:27)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (01:43:27)
When I started doing that, I found myself to be quite a bit healthier. When I’ve deviated from that I’ve gained weight.

Elon Musk: (01:43:34)
So what?

Joe Rogan: (01:43:35)
16 hours?

Elon Musk: (01:43:36)
Well Okay, yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:43:37)
I like 16 hours. Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:43:38)
So like at night or at a certain [crosstalk 01:43:40]

Joe Rogan: (01:43:40)
Yeah. So I get to a certain point and then I count out, I usually hit the stopwatch on my phone and then I look at 15 hours, and I’m like “Oh, okay. Got an hour before I can eat.”

Elon Musk: (01:43:52)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:43:52)
And so anything in between that is just water or coffee.

Elon Musk: (01:43:56)
Actually, this may be a useful bit of advice for people, but eating before you go to bed is a real bad idea and actually negatively affects your sleep. And it can actually cause heartburn, that you don’t even know is happening, and that subtle heartburn, it affects your sleep because your horizontal and your body’s digesting. So if you want to improve the quality of your sleep and be healthier, it’s do not eat right before we go to sleep. It’s one of the worst things you could do.

Joe Rogan: (01:44:31)
Some of the biggest mistakes I’ve ever made. I’ve done that, particularly after comedy shows, if I’m starving, I’ll come home and I’ll eat. And then I go to bed and I just feel like shit and I wake up in the middle of the night.

Elon Musk: (01:44:43)
It’s going to crush your sleep and it’s going to damage your pyloric sphincter and your esophagus. In fact drinking and then going to sleep, that’s one of the worst things you could do.

Joe Rogan: (01:44:54)
Yes.

Elon Musk: (01:44:56)
So just try to avoid drinking and eating-

Joe Rogan: (01:45:01)
Booze, drinking booze.

Elon Musk: (01:45:03)
Yeah, exactly. Small amounts of alcohol, evidence suggests it doesn’t have a negative effect on-

Joe Rogan: (01:45:15)
I put it in the same category as delicious food. It kind of makes things a little more fun. I like it.

Elon Musk: (01:45:19)
Yeah. I mean some of the people who’ve lived the longest, there was a woman in France who I think, maybe has the record or close to it, and she had a glass of wine every day. Small amounts is fine. But yeah, I learned this like quite late in life. It’s like, just avoid having alcohol and avoid eating at least two or three hours before going to sleep, and your quality of sleep will improve and your general health will improve a lot.

Joe Rogan: (01:45:51)
For sure, yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:45:52)
It’s a big deal and I think, not widely known.

Joe Rogan: (01:45:54)
Do you have time to exercise?

Elon Musk: (01:45:59)
A little bit.

Joe Rogan: (01:46:01)
Do you have a trainer or anything?

Elon Musk: (01:46:03)
I do, although I haven’t seen him for a while. But yeah, especially if I’m out, say we’re working on Starship or something South Texas and I’m just living in my, I got a little house there in Boca Chica village, and I don’t have much to do, so. Or I’m working and I’ll just lift some weights or something. Some people love running, I don’t love running. But if-

Joe Rogan: (01:46:35)
What do you like to do exercise wise?

Elon Musk: (01:46:39)
To be totally frank, I wouldn’t exercise at all if I could. I prefer not to exercise, but if I’m going to exercise, I’ll lift some weights and then kind of run on a treadmill and maybe watch a show, if there’s a compelling show that pulls you in.

Joe Rogan: (01:46:57)
Right. Yeah. That’s a good thing to do. Watch a good movie or episode of Black Mirror or something like that, it’s great.

Elon Musk: (01:47:04)
Man, don’t watch Black Mirror before going to bed either.

Joe Rogan: (01:47:06)
Well don’t watch Black Mirror today. It’s too fucking accurate.

Elon Musk: (01:47:10)
Yeah, exactly. It’s like, “Wait, that’s already happened in real life.”

Joe Rogan: (01:47:13)
Yeah. They’re too close.

Elon Musk: (01:47:15)
It’s too close.

Joe Rogan: (01:47:16)
Well even… Jamie, didn’t you say that the guy who makes Black Mirror-

Jamie: (01:47:19)
Today at… Oh my Mic’s off. Yeah he said it’s not a good time to start season six.

Joe Rogan: (01:47:25)
Yeah, he wants to hold off because reality-

Elon Musk: (01:47:27)
He’s nailed it?

Joe Rogan: (01:47:28)
…is black mirror.

Elon Musk: (01:47:29)
Oh man.

Joe Rogan: (01:47:30)
It’s like he’s going to have to reassess and attack it from a different angle. you should try something that’s fun to do. That’s not just, like learn a martial art or something like that.

Elon Musk: (01:47:43)
I did martial arts when I was kid. Liked it.

Joe Rogan: (01:47:44)
Did you? What’d you do?

Elon Musk: (01:47:48)
I did a TaeKwonDo. I did Karate, [foreign language 00:14:51] [crosstalk 01:47:52].

Joe Rogan: (01:47:55)
Oh, alright, cool.

Elon Musk: (01:47:57)
And Judo.

Joe Rogan: (01:47:58)
Oh, so you really branched out.

Elon Musk: (01:47:59)
Yeah. And did Brazilian Jujitsu briefly.

Joe Rogan: (01:48:07)
Did you? Where?

Elon Musk: (01:48:09)
In Palo Alto.

Joe Rogan: (01:48:10)
Really?

Elon Musk: (01:48:10)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:48:11)
Oh no shit. I was going to suggest that. That’s a great thing for people. That’s a thing about jujitsu, if you look at it from the outside you think, “Oh bunch of meatheads strangling each other.”

Elon Musk: (01:48:22)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (01:48:22)
But they’re some of the smartest people I know, are jujitsu fiends because, first of all, they get introduced to it because usually either they want to exercise or learn some self-defense, but then they realize that it’s essentially like a language with your body. Like you’re having an argument with someone with some sort of a physical language. And it’s really complex and the more access to vocabulary and the sharper your words are, the more you’ll succeed in these ventures. That’s really an accurate analogy of what jujitsu is.

Elon Musk: (01:48:57)
Yeah. I mean, I kind of got, probably like a lot of people, for the way-early day, the first MMA fights and Royce Gracie, and he was just like incredible. And it was like-

Joe Rogan: (01:49:09)
Technique.

Elon Musk: (01:49:10)
Yeah. He was winning against people way bigger and that kind of thing. And it was just like “Whoa, this is cool.”

Joe Rogan: (01:49:15)
It was what martial arts were supposed to be, when we were kids. When you saw Bruce Lee fuck-up all these big giant guys. Like, “Wow, martial arts allow you to beat someone far bigger and stronger than you.”

Elon Musk: (01:49:25)
Right.

Joe Rogan: (01:49:27)
Most of the time that’s not real.

Elon Musk: (01:49:29)
Especially if they know martial arts too. It’s like, “Oh no.”

Joe Rogan: (01:49:33)
Yes. But in the UFC, when Royce Gracie, off of his back, was strangling Dan Severn with his legs. You’re like, “Holy shit, this guy’s being pinned by this big giant wrestler, and he wraps his legs around his neck, and chokes him to the point that guy has to surrender.” Amazing.

Elon Musk: (01:49:50)
Yeah, it was amazing. I mean Royce got beaten up pretty bad in some of those.

Joe Rogan: (01:49:55)
Well, he definitely had some rough fights-

Elon Musk: (01:49:56)
But he won.

Joe Rogan: (01:49:58)
He won. Yeah. He’s a legend. But what it showed, I mean I’m a huge lover of jujitsu, what it showed is that there is a method for diffusing these situations with technique and knowledge. And I think it’s also a great way to exercise too because it’s almost like the exercise is secondary to the learning of the thing. The exercise is like you want to develop strength and conditioning just so that you could be better at doing the thing. And the analogy that I use is, imagine if you had a race car and you could actually give the race car better handling and more horsepower just from your own focus and effort. That’s really what it’s like.

Elon Musk: (01:50:39)
Yeah, totally.

Joe Rogan: (01:50:40)
Yeah. When am I going to be able to-

Elon Musk: (01:50:43)
My kids… I should say, I sent my kids to jujitsu since they were like, I don’t know, six.

Joe Rogan: (01:50:50)
Oh, really?

Elon Musk: (01:50:50)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:50:51)
Oh, that’s awesome.

Elon Musk: (01:50:51)
[crosstalk 01:50:51]. Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:50:53)
It’s a great thing to learn. It really is.

Elon Musk: (01:50:56)
Yes, seems like a good… Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:50:56)
Yeah. Maybe something like… mean even if you just have someone who holds the pads for you, you could get a workout in and it’d be fun.

Elon Musk: (01:51:03)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (01:51:06)
When am I going to be able to buy one of them roadsters? When’s that happening?

Elon Musk: (01:51:09)
Well I can’t say exactly when, but we got to get it… This COVID thing’s kind of thrown us for a loop.

Joe Rogan: (01:51:22)
I’m sure.

Elon Musk: (01:51:23)
So, not to blame everything on COVID, but it’s certainly set us back on progress for some number of months. But I mean things were going to get done. Ahead of Roadster are, ramping up model Y production, that’ll be a great car, it is a great car, getting the Berlin Giga-factory built, and also building Y getting expanding the Shanghai factory, which is going great and get this Cybertruck, Semi truck, Roadster. Roadster is kind of like dessert. We gotta get the meat and potatoes and greens and stuff.

Joe Rogan: (01:52:18)
But Roadster comes before cyber truck?

Elon Musk: (01:52:24)
I mean, I think we should do Cybertruck first, before Roadster.

Joe Rogan: (01:52:29)
Interesting.

Elon Musk: (01:52:29)
Now some of the-

Joe Rogan: (01:52:30)
I’m not mad at that.

Elon Musk: (01:52:31)
Some of the things for Roadster, the tri-motor, plaid powertrain, we’re going to have that in model S. So that’s like part one of the ingredients that’s needed for Roadster, is the plaid powertrain, the more advanced battery pack. That kind of thing.

Joe Rogan: (01:52:48)
I wanted to ask you about this before I forgot. There’s a company that’s called Apex is taking your Teslas and they’re giving it a wider base and wider tires and a little bit more advanced suspension.

Elon Musk: (01:53:01)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (01:53:01)
How do you feel about that?

Elon Musk: (01:53:02)
Sounds good to me, sure.

Joe Rogan: (01:53:02)
Do you work with them? Are you cool with those people?

Elon Musk: (01:53:05)
Yeah, I mean, go ahead.

Joe Rogan: (01:53:08)
They’re jazzing stuff up with carbon fiber and doing a bunch of interior choices. You’re cool with… You can’t fuck with that. You don’t have time. So is it good that someone comes along and has that sort of specialty operation?

Elon Musk: (01:53:20)
Yeah. I’ve got no problem.

Joe Rogan: (01:53:20)
That’s what it’s called, right? It’s like… Jamie, is it called Apex?

Jamie: (01:53:23)
Yeah. I got a Unplugged Performance S-APEX.

Joe Rogan: (01:53:26)
That’s right. Unplugged Performance. Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:53:28)
Yeah. You could for sure, lighten the car up and improve tire traction and-

Joe Rogan: (01:53:35)
Have you seen that company’s stuff? What they do?

Elon Musk: (01:53:37)
I don’t know specifically, but there’s-

Joe Rogan: (01:53:39)
It’s pretty dope. They make it pretty dope looking… They take model S and they widen it and give it a bunch of carbon fiber. That’s it, right there.

Elon Musk: (01:53:46)
Cool.

Joe Rogan: (01:53:46)
Ooh-la-la, look at that.

Elon Musk: (01:53:48)
That looks pretty nice.

Joe Rogan: (01:53:48)
Yeah, it does. Now, the plaid version of the model S, are you going to widen the track and do a bunch of different, I know you guys are testing at the Nurburgring. Can you not talk about that?

Elon Musk: (01:54:01)
Well, I think we’ve got to leave that for a proper sort of product unveil.

Joe Rogan: (01:54:06)
I understand.

Elon Musk: (01:54:06)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:54:07)
I understand. Last time you were here you convince me to buy a Tesla. I bought it and it’s fucking insane.

Elon Musk: (01:54:15)
Oh great. Glad you like it.

Joe Rogan: (01:54:15)
Aw Man.

Elon Musk: (01:54:15)
Pretty fun.

Joe Rogan: (01:54:16)
I don’t… It’s not just pretty fun. The way I’ve described it is, it makes other cars seem stupid. They just seem dumb. And I love dumb things. I love dumb cars. Like I love campfires. I love campfires. I have a 1993 Porsche that’s air cooled.

Elon Musk: (01:54:32)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (01:54:33)
It’s not that fast. It’s really slow compared to the Tesla really.

Elon Musk: (01:54:36)
Yeah, actually, it’s really quite slow. But, okay, sure.

Joe Rogan: (01:54:38)
But there’s something engaging about the mechanical, just like the gears and, it’s very analog. But it’s so stupid in comparison to the Tesla. Like when I want to go somewhere in the model S, I hit the gas and it just goes, whee. It just, it like violates time.

Elon Musk: (01:54:57)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:54:57)
Yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:54:59)
You’ve tried it like Ludicrous Plus and stuff like that?

Joe Rogan: (01:55:01)
Oh yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:55:01)
Yeah. Cool.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:02)
Yeah. Oh yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:55:04)
We just did a software update where it’ll do, like a, cheetah stance. So yeah. So, because it’s got a dynamic air suspension so it lowers the back.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:13)
Oh Jesus.

Elon Musk: (01:55:15)
Just like a sprinter basically.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:16)
Right.

Elon Musk: (01:55:16)
Like what do you do if you’re a sprinter, you hunker down and then shoo. So I shaved like a 10th of a second off the 0 to 60. I mean it’s pretty fun.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:26)
It’s so… I’ve taken so many people. And, I take them for the Holy shit moment. I’m like, “You ready?” like “Hang on there.” and then I stomp on the gas-

Elon Musk: (01:55:34)
And they’ve never felt anything like it.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:35)
It’s confusing.

Elon Musk: (01:55:37)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:37)
It really is.

Elon Musk: (01:55:38)
Sure.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:40)
The instant torque and just the sheer acceleration is baffling.

Elon Musk: (01:55:44)
It’s baffling.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:45)
It’s baffling.

Elon Musk: (01:55:45)
They’ve never felt it.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:46)
No.

Elon Musk: (01:55:46)
It’s faster than falling.

Joe Rogan: (01:55:48)
It’s crazy. It’s so fast. It’s a roller coaster. And my family yells at me when I stomp the gas. Like I tell my kids, I’m like, “You want to feel it? You want to feel it?” they’re like “Do it, do it, do it.” my wife’s like, “Don’t do it.” Boom. And even if I just do it on the highway for a couple of seconds, it’s very exciting.

Elon Musk: (01:56:04)
Yeah, pretty fun.

Joe Rogan: (01:56:05)
It’s very fun.

Elon Musk: (01:56:05)
Yeah. It’s like having your own roller coaster on tap.

Joe Rogan: (01:56:07)
It really is like a roller coaster on tap. Without the loop de loops. But, the pinning to your seat, it seems like you’re not supposed to be able to experience that from some sort of a consumer vehicle that a regular person could buy, if you have the money. It seems too crazy. And then the idea that this Roadster is a half of a second faster than that? That’s madness.

Elon Musk: (01:56:32)
Well with a Roadster, we’re going to do some things that are kind of unfair. So we’re going to take some things from Cadillac rocket world and put them on a car, so.

Joe Rogan: (01:56:44)
Oh, I’ve read about that. Explain that. Like what do you?

Elon Musk: (01:56:47)
Well, like I said, we can’t do the product unveil right here. But, it’s going to do some things that are unfair.

Joe Rogan: (01:56:52)
Unfair.

Elon Musk: (01:56:56)
When we do the unveil of the Roadster, let me just say that anyone who’s been waiting, they won’t be sorry. They won’t be sorry.

Joe Rogan: (01:57:04)
Oh, but sure, well anything that goes 0 to 60, what is it 1.9? Is that the 0 to 60?

Elon Musk: (01:57:09)
That’s the base model.

Joe Rogan: (01:57:12)
What’s the top of the food chain model?

Elon Musk: (01:57:14)
[inaudible 00:01:57:14].

Joe Rogan: (01:57:16)
Okay. Faster than that. Let’s just say faster than that.

Elon Musk: (01:57:18)
Faster than that, yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:57:18)
That seems so crazy to me. Now, what was it like when the dude threw the steel balls at the window and they were supposed to not break, and it broke?

Elon Musk: (01:57:29)
Well, yeah. I mean-

Joe Rogan: (01:57:30)
I know, extenuating circumstances.

Elon Musk: (01:57:31)
…at least you know that our demos are authentic, because I was not expecting that and then I think I muttered, under my breath, like “Holy shit”.

Joe Rogan: (01:57:43)
Yeah. You didn’t get mad though.

Elon Musk: (01:57:45)
No-

Joe Rogan: (01:57:46)
You didn’t Steve jobs it.

Elon Musk: (01:57:49)
No, I definitely swore, I didn’t think the micro pick it up but it did. But, so like we practiced this, behind the scenes. At Tesla, we don’t do like tons of practice for our demos, because we’re working on the cars. We’re building new technologies and improving the fundamental product. So we’re not spending, doing hundreds of practice things or anything like that. We don’t have time for that. But, just hours before the demo, both Franz, head of design and I were in the studio throwing steel balls at the window, and it’s bouncing right off. And like, “Okay, this seems pretty good. It seems like we got it.” Okay? And then, we think what happened was, when Franz hit the door with the sledgehammer-

Joe Rogan: (01:58:51)
Oh, yeah.

Elon Musk: (01:58:51)
…show, this is exoskeleton, high strength, hardened steel. You can literally wind up with a sledgehammer, full on double-handed sledgehammer and hit the door and there’s not even a dent. It’s cool. But we think that cracked the corner of the glass at the bottom and then, once you crack the corner of the glass it’s game over. So then when you threw the ball that’s what cracked the glass.

Joe Rogan: (01:59:24)
So in hindsight-

Elon Musk: (01:59:25)
It didn’t go through though.

Joe Rogan: (01:59:26)
It didn’t go through.

Elon Musk: (01:59:26)
It’s doesn’t go through.

Joe Rogan: (01:59:26)
That’s true. It didn’t shatter the whole thing, like a regular window would either, which would just dissolve. Right? So in hindsight, the ball should have been first, sledgehammer second.

Elon Musk: (01:59:36)
Yeah.

Joe Rogan: (01:59:36)
You live, you learn.

Elon Musk: (01:59:37)
Yeah, exactly.

Joe Rogan: (01:59:39)
Listen, man, we’ve taken up a lot of your time. You had a child recently.

Elon Musk: (01:59:42)
Yeah, I got to get back to it.

Joe Rogan: (01:59:43)
It’s amazing that you had the time to come down here. And I really appreciate that. I appreciate everything you do, man. I’m glad you’re out there. And I really appreciate you coming down here and sharing your perspective.

Elon Musk: (01:59:54)
Well, I think you’ve got a great show. Thanks for having me on.

Joe Rogan: (01:59:56)
Thank you. My pleasure.

Elon Musk: (01:59:58)
All right.

Joe Rogan: (01:59:58)
Elon Musk, ladies and gentlemen. Good night.

Elon Musk: (02:00:02)
Anyway, that should get a little play.

[00:00:00] Joe Rogan
Ah, ha, ha, ha. Four, three, two, one, boom. Thank you. Thanks for doing this, man. Really appreciate it.
[00:00:09] Elon Musk
You're welcome.
[00:00:10] Joe Rogan
It's very good to meet you.
[00:00:11] Elon Musk
Nice to meet you too.
[00:00:12] Joe Rogan
And thanks for not lighting this place on fire.
[00:00:13] Elon Musk
You're welcome. That's coming later.
[00:00:16] Joe Rogan
How does one, just in the middle of doing all the things you do, create cars, rockets, all the stuff you're doing, constantly innovating,
decide to just make a flamethrower? Where do you have the time for that?
[00:00:30] Elon Musk
Well, the flame, we didn't puta lot of time into the flamethrower. This was an off-the-cuff thing. It's sort of a hobby company called
the Boring Company, which started out as a joke, and we decided to make a real, and dig a tunnel under LA. And then, other people
asked us to dig tunnels. And so, we said yes in a few cases.
[00:01:02] Joe Rogan
Now, who-
[00:01:02] Elon Musk
And then, we have a merchandise section that only has one piece of merchandise at a time. And we started off with a cap. And there
was only one thing on, which is BoringCompany.com/hat. That's it. And then, we sold the hats, limited edition. It just said, "The
Boring Company."
[00:01:23] Elon Musk
And then, I'm a big fan ofSpaceballs, the movie. And in Spaceballs, Yogurt goes through the merchandising section, and they have
a flamethrower in the merchandising section of Spaceballs. And, like, the kids love that one. That's the line when he pulls up the
flamethrower. It's like, "We should do a flamethrower." So, we-
[00:01:51] Joe Rogan
Does anybody tell you no? Does anybody go, "Elon, maybe for yourself, but selling a flamethrower, the liabilities, all the people
you're selling this device to, what kind of unhinged people are going to be buying a flamethrower in the first place? Do we reallywant
to connect ourselves to all these potential arsonists?
[00:02:11] Elon Musk
Yeah, it's a terrible idea. It's terrible. Don't buy one. I said, "Don't buy this flamethrower. Don't buy it. Don't buy it." That's what I said,
but, still, people bought it.
[00:02:22] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:02:23] Elon Musk
There's nothing I can do to stop them. I did not stop them.
[00:02:24] Joe Rogan
You build it, they will come.
[00:02:25] Elon Musk
I said, "Don't buy it. It's a bad idea."
[00:02:29] Joe Rogan
How many did you make?
[00:02:30] Elon Musk
It's dangerous. It's wrong. Don't buy it. And, still, people bought it. I just couldn't stop them.
[00:02:38] Joe Rogan
How many did you make?
[00:02:40] Elon Musk
20,000.
[00:02:43] Joe Rogan
And they're all gone?
[00:02:44] Elon Musk
In three -- I think, four days. They sold out in four days.
[00:02:49] Joe Rogan
Are you going to do another run?
[00:02:53] Elon Musk
No.
[00:02:53] Joe Rogan
No, that's it?
[00:02:54] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:02:54] Joe Rogan
Oh, I see.
[00:02:55] Elon Musk
I said we're doing 20. We did 50,000. 50,000 hats, and that was a million dollars. I thought, "Okay. Well, we'll sell something for 10
million," and that was 20,000 flamethrowers at $500 each. They went fast.
[00:03:19] Joe Rogan
Yeah. How do you have the time? How do you have the timeto do that though? I mean, I understand that it's not a big deal in terms
of all the other things you do, but how do you have time to do anything? I just -- I don'tunderstand your time management skills.
[00:03:31] Elon Musk
I mean, I didn't spend much time on this flamethrower. I mean, to be totally frank, it's actually just a roofing torch with an air rifle
cover. It's not a real flamethrower.
[00:03:43] Joe Rogan
Which is why it says, "Not a flamethrower."
[00:03:45] Elon Musk
That's why we were very clear, this is not actually a flamethrower. And, also, we are told that various countries would ban shipping of
it, that they would ban flamethrowers. So, we're very -- To solve this problem for all of the customs agencies, we labeled it, "Not a
flamethrower."
[00:04:02] Joe Rogan
Did it work? Was it effective?
[00:04:06] Elon Musk
I don't know. I think so. Yes.
[00:04:07] Joe Rogan
So far.
[00:04:07] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:04:08] Joe Rogan
Now, but you do-
[00:04:09] Elon Musk
Because they said you cannot ship a flamethrower.
[00:04:11] Joe Rogan
But you do so many different things. Forget about the flamethrower. Like, how do you do all that other shit? Like, how does one
decide to fix LA traffic by drilling holes in the ground? And who do you even approach with that? Like, when you have this idea, who
do you talk to about that?
[00:04:27] Elon Musk
I mean, I'm not saying it's going to be successful or something, you know. It's not like asserting that it's going to be successful. But so
far, I've lived in LA for 16 years, and the traffic has always been terrible. And so, I don't see any other, like, ideas for improving the
traffic. So, in desperation, we're going to dig a tunnel. And maybe that tunnel will be successful and maybe it won't.
[00:04:59] Joe Rogan
I'm listening.
[00:05:01] Elon Musk
Yeah. I'm not trying to convince you it's going to work.
[00:05:04] Joe Rogan
And are the people that you-
[00:05:05] Elon Musk
I mean, or anyone.
[00:05:06] Joe Rogan
But you are starting this though. This is actually a project you're starting to implement, right.
[00:05:11] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah, no. We've dug about a mile. It's quite long. It takes a long time to walk it.
[00:05:17] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Now, when you're doing this, what is the ultimate plan? The ultimate plan is to have these in major cities, and anywhere there's
mass congestion, and just try it out in LA first?
[00:05:26] Elon Musk
Yeah. It's in LA because I mostly live in LA. That's the reason. It's a terrible place to dig tunnels. This is one of the worst places to dig
tunnels mostly because of the paperwork. You all think it's like, "What about seismic?" It's like, actually, both tunnels are very safe in
earthquakes.
[00:05:45] Joe Rogan
Why is that?
[00:05:46] Elon Musk
Earthquakes are essentially a surface phenomenon. It's like waves on the ocean. So, if there's a storm, you want to be in a
submarine. So, being in a tunnel is like being in a submarine. Now, the way the tunnel is constructed, it's constructed out of these
interlocking segments, kind of like a snake. It's sort of like a snake exoskeleton with double seals.
[00:06:15] Elon Musk
And so, even when the ground moves, the tunnel actually is able to shift along with the ground like an underground snake, and it
doesn't crack or break. And it's extremely unlikely that both seals would be broken. And it's capable of taking five atmospheres of
pressure. It's waterproof, methane-proof, well, gas-proof of any kind, and meets all California seismic requirements.
[00:06:46] Joe Rogan
So, when you have this idea, who do you bring this to?
[00:06:50] Elon Musk
I'm not sure what you mean by that.
[00:06:51] Joe Rogan
Well, you're implementing it. So, you're digging holes in the ground.
[00:06:54] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:06:54] Joe Rogan
Like, you have to bring it to someone that lets you do it.
[00:06:58] Elon Musk
Yes. There are some engineers from SpaceX who thought it would be cool to do this. And the guy who runs it, like, day-to-day is
Steve Davis. He's a longtime SpaceX engineer. He is great. So, Steve was like, "I'd like to help make this happen." I was like, "Cool."
So, we started off with digging a hole in the ground. It's got like a permit for a pit, like pit, and just dug a big pit.
[00:07:34] Joe Rogan
And you have to tell them what the pit's for, or you just said, "Hey, we just want to diga hole."
[00:07:38] Elon Musk
I just filled up this form.
[00:07:41] Joe Rogan
That's it?
[00:07:43] Elon Musk
Yeah, it was a pit in our parking lot.
[00:07:45] Joe Rogan
But do you have to give them some sort of a blueprint for your ultimate idea? And do they have to approve it? Like, how does that
work?
[00:07:51] Elon Musk
Now. We just started off with a pit.
[00:07:52] Joe Rogan
Okay.
[00:07:52] Elon Musk
A big pit. And, you know, it's not really -- Youknow, they don't really care about the existential nature of a pit. You just say like, "I
want a pit."
[00:08:03] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:08:04] Elon Musk
Yeah. And it's a hole in the ground. So then, we got the permit for the pit, and we dug the pit, and we dug it in, like, I don't know, three
days, two to three days. Actually, I think two, 48hours, something like that because Eric Carr said he was coming by for the Hype.
He's going to attend the Hyperloop Competition. which is like a student competition we have for who can make the fastest part in the
Hyperloop. And he was coming.
[00:08:33] Elon Musk
The finals are going to be on Sunday afternoon. And so, Eric is coming by on Sunday afternoon. He's like,"You know, we should dig
this pit, and then like show Eric." So, this was like Friday morning. And then, yeah. So, it's about a little over 48 hours later, we dug
the pit. There was like wind 24/7. Oh, 24. 48 straight hours, something like that. And dug this big pit, and we're like, "Show Eric the
pit." It's like, obviously, it's just a pit. But, hey, a hole in the ground is better than no hole in the ground.
[00:09:09] Joe Rogan
And what did you tell him aboutthis pit? I mean, you just said this is the beginning of this idea.
[00:09:13] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:09:13] Joe Rogan
We're going to build tunnels under LA to help funnel traffic better.
[00:09:17] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:09:17] Joe Rogan
And they just go, "Okay." But we've joked around about this in the podcast before to like what if a person can go to the people that
run the city and go, "Hey, I want to dig some holes on the ground and put some tunnels in there," and they go "Oh, yeah, okay."
[00:09:31] Elon Musk
Not the only one with a holein the ground.
[00:09:32] Joe Rogan
But it's a-
[00:09:33] Elon Musk
People dig holes in the ground all time.
[00:09:35] Joe Rogan
But my question is, like, I know how much time you must be spending on your Tesla factory. I know how much time you must be
spending on SpaceX. And yet, you still have time to dig holes under the ground in LA, and come up with these ideas, and then
implement them. Like-
[00:09:49] Elon Musk
I have a million ideas.
[00:09:50] Joe Rogan
I'm sure you do.
[00:09:51] Elon Musk
There's no shortage of that. Yeah.
[00:09:54] Joe Rogan
I just don't know how you manage your time. I don't understand it. It doesn't seem -- It doesn't even seemhumanly possible.
[00:10:00] Elon Musk
You know, I do, basically -- I think, people, like, don't totally understand what I do with my time. They think, like, I'm a business guy or
something like that. Like my Wikipedia page says business magnate.
[00:10:14] Joe Rogan
What would you call yourself?
[00:10:15] Elon Musk
A business magnet. Can someone please change my Wikipedia page to magnet?
[00:10:21] Joe Rogan
They'll change it for you.
[00:10:21] Elon Musk
Please change.
[00:10:21] Joe Rogan
Right now, it's probably already changed.
[00:10:23] Elon Musk
It's locked. So, somebody has to be able to unlock it and change it to magnet.
[00:10:26] Joe Rogan
Someone will get that.
[00:10:26] Elon Musk
I want to be a magnet. No, I do engineering, you know, and manufacturing, and that kind of thing. That's like 80% or more of my time.
[00:10:37] Joe Rogan
Ideas, and then the implementation of those ideas.
[00:10:40] Elon Musk
Those are like hardcore engineering, like-
[00:10:42] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:10:42] Elon Musk
... designing things, you know.
[00:10:44] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:10:45] Elon Musk
It's structural, mechanical, electrical, software, user interface, engineering, aerospace engineering.
[00:10:56] Joe Rogan
But you must understand there's not a whole lot of human beings like you. You know that, right? You're an oddity-
[00:11:02] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:11:03] Joe Rogan
... to chimps like me.
[00:11:05] Elon Musk
We're all chimps.
[00:11:06] Joe Rogan
Yeah, we are.
[00:11:06] Elon Musk
We're one notch. One notch above a chimp.
[00:11:08] Joe Rogan
Some of us are a little more confused. When I watch you doing all these things, I'm like, "How does this motherfucker have all this
time, and all this energy, and all these ideas, and then people just let him do these things?"
[00:11:20] Elon Musk
Because I'm an alien.
[00:11:21] Joe Rogan
That's what I've speculated.
[00:11:23] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:11:24] Joe Rogan
Then, I'm on record saying this in the past. I wonder.
[00:11:27] Elon Musk
It's true.
[00:11:28] Joe Rogan
I mean, if therewas one? I was like, "Ifthere was, like, maybe an intelligent being that we created, you know, like some AI creature
that's superior to people, maybe it's just hanging around with us for a little while like you've been doing, and then fix a bunch of shit."
I mean, that's the way.
[00:11:44] Elon Musk
I might have some mutationor something like that.
[00:11:45] Joe Rogan
You might. Do you think you do?
[00:11:47] Elon Musk
Probably.
[00:11:47] Joe Rogan
Do you wonder? Like, around normal people, you're like, "Hmm." Think, "What's up with these boring dumb motherfuckers?" ever?
[00:11:56] Elon Musk
Not bad for a human, but, I think, I will not be able to hold a candle to AI.
[00:12:05] Joe Rogan
You scared the shit out of me when you talk about AI between you and Sam Harris.
[00:12:09] Elon Musk
Oh sure.
[00:12:10] Joe Rogan
I didn't consider it until I had a podcast with Sam once.
[00:12:12] Elon Musk
That's great.
[00:12:12] Joe Rogan
And he made me shit my pants. Talking about AI, I realized, like, "Oh, this is a genie that once it's out of the bottle, you're never
getting it back in."
[00:12:22] Elon Musk
That's true.
[00:12:23] Joe Rogan
There was a video that you tweeted about one of those Boston dynamic robots.
[00:12:29] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:12:29] Joe Rogan
And you're like,"In the future, it will be moving so fast, you can't see it without a strobe light."
[00:12:34] Elon Musk
Yeah. You can probably do that right now.
[00:12:38] Joe Rogan
And no one's really paying attention too much other than people like you, or people that are really obsessed with technology, all these
things are happening. And these robots are -- Doyou see the one where PETA put out a statement that you shouldn't kick robots?
[00:12:52] Elon Musk
It's probably not wise.
[00:12:55] Joe Rogan
For retribution.
[00:12:56] Elon Musk
Their memory is very good.
[00:12:58] Joe Rogan
I bet it's really good.
[00:12:59] Elon Musk
It's really good.
[00:13:00] Joe Rogan
I bet it is.
[00:13:00] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:13:01] Joe Rogan
And getting better every day.
[00:13:02] Elon Musk
It's really good.
[00:13:03] Joe Rogan
Are you honestly legitimately concerned about this? Are you -- Is, like,AI one of your main worries in regards to the future?
[00:13:16] Elon Musk
Yes. It's less of a worry than it used to be, mostly due to taking more of a fatalistic attitude.
[00:13:25] Joe Rogan
So, you used to have more hope, and you gave up some of it. And, now, you don't worry as much about AI. You're like, "This is just
what it is."
[00:13:39] Elon Musk
Pretty much. Yes, yes, yes.
[00:13:41] Joe Rogan
Was that not? Yes but no.
[00:13:41] Elon Musk
It's not necessarily bad. It's just it's definitely going to be outside of human control.
[00:13:51] Joe Rogan
Not necessarily bad, right?
[00:13:53] Elon Musk
Yes. It's not necessarily bad. It's just outside of human control. Now, the thing that's going to be tricky here is that it's going to be very
tempting to use AI as a weapon. It's going to be very tempting. In fact, it will be used as a weapon. So, the on ramp to serious AI, the
danger is going to be more humans using it against each other, I think, most likely. That will be the danger. Yeah.
[00:14:29] Joe Rogan
How far do you think we are from something that can make its own mind up whether or not something's ethically or morally correct,
or whether or not it wants to do something, or whether or not it wants to improve itself, or whether or not it wants to protect itself from
people or from other AI? How far away are we from something that's really truly sentient?
[00:14:52] Elon Musk
Well, I mean, you could argue that any group of people, like a company is essentially a cybernetic collective of people and machines.
That's what a company is. And then, there are different levels of complexity in the way these companies are formed. And then,
there's a sort of like a collective AI in the Google, sort of, Search, Google Search, you know, where we're all sort of plugged in as like
nodes on the network, like leaves on a big tree.
[00:15:38] Elon Musk
And we're all feeding this network with our questions and answers. We're all collectively programming the AI. And Google Plus, all
the humans that connect to it, are one giant cybernetic collective. This is also true of Facebook, and Twitter, and Instagram, and all
the social networks. They're giant cybernetic collectives.
[00:16:06] Joe Rogan
Humans and electronics all interfacing, and constantly now, constantly connected.
[00:16:11] Elon Musk
Yes, constantly.
[00:16:15] Joe Rogan
One of the things that I've been thinking about a lot over the last few years is that one of the things that drives a lot of people crazy is
how many people are obsessed with materialism and getting the latest greatest thing. And I wonder how much of that is -- Well, a lot
of it is most certainly fueling technology and innovation. And it almost seems like it's built into us. It's like what we like and what we
want that we're fueling this thing that's constantly around us all the time.
[00:16:41] Joe Rogan
And it doesn't seem possible that people are going to pump the brakes. It doesn't seem possible at this stage where we're constantly
expecting the newest cellphone, the latest Tesla update, the newest MacBook Pro. Everything has to be newer and better. And that's
going to lead to some incredible point. And it seems like it's built into us. It almost seems like it's an instinct that we're working
towards this, that we like it. Our job, just like the ants build the anthill, our job is to somehow know how fuel this.
[00:17:18] Elon Musk
Yes. I mean, I made this commentsome years ago, but it feels like we are the biological bootloader for AI. Effectively, we are
building it. And then, we're building progressively greater intelligence. And the percentage of intelligence that is not human is
increasing. And, eventually, we will represent a very small percentage of intelligence. But the AI is informed strangely by the human
limbic system. It is, in large part, our id writ large.
[00:18:03] Joe Rogan
How so?
[00:18:05] Elon Musk
We mentioned all those things, the sort of primal drives. There's all of the things that we like, and hate, and fear. They're all there on
the internet. They're a projection of our limbic system. That's true.
[00:18:33] Joe Rogan
No, it makes sense. And the thinking of it as a -- I mean, thinking of corporations, and just thinking of just human beings
communicating online through these social media networks in some sort of an organism that's a -- It's a cyborg. It's a combination.
It's a combination of electronics and biology.
[00:18:53] Elon Musk
Yeah. This is -- In somemeasure, like, it's to thesuccess of these online systems. It's sort of a function of how much limbic
resonance they're able to achieve with people. The more limbic resonance, the more engagement.
[00:19:15] Joe Rogan
Whereas, like one of the reasons why probably Instagram is more enticing than Twitter.
[00:19:21] Elon Musk
Limbic resonance.
[00:19:22] Joe Rogan
Yeah. You get moreimages, more video.
[00:19:25] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:19:26] Joe Rogan
It's tweaking your system more.
[00:19:27] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:19:28] Joe Rogan
Do you worry or wonder, in fact, of what the next step is? I mean, a lotof you didn't see Twitter coming. You know, communicate with
140 characters or 280 now would be a thing that people would be interested in. Like it's going to excel. It's going to become more
connected to us, right?
[00:19:49] Elon Musk
Yes. Things are getting more and more connected. They're, at this point, constrained by bandwidth. Our input/output is slow,
particularly output. Output got worse with thumbs. You know, we used to have input with 10 fingers. Now, we have thumbs. But
images are just, also, other way of communicating at high bandwidth. You take pictures and you send pictures to people. What
sends, that communicates far more information than you can communicate with your thumb.
[00:20:18] Joe Rogan
So, what happened with you where you decided, or you took on a more fatalistic attitude? Like, was there any specific thing, or was it
just the inevitability of our future?
[00:20:38] Elon Musk
I try to convince people to slow down. Slow down AI to regulate AI. That's what's futile. I tried for years, and nobody listened.
[00:20:51] Joe Rogan
This seems like a scene in a movie-
[00:20:52] Elon Musk
Nobody listened.
[00:20:53] Joe Rogan
... where the the robots are going to fucking takeover.You're freaking me out. Nobody listened?
[00:20:57] Elon Musk
Nobody listened.
[00:20:57] Joe Rogan
No one. Are people more inclined to listen today? It seems like an issue that's brought up more often over the last few years than it
was maybe 5-10 years ago. It seemed like science fiction.
[00:21:10] Elon Musk
Maybe they will. So far, they haven't. I think, people don't -- Like, normally, the waythat regulations work is very slow. it's very slow
indeed. So, usually, it will be something, some new technology. It will cause damage or death. There will be an outcry. There will be
an investigation. Years will pass. There will be some sort of insights committee. There will be rule making. Then, there will be
oversight, absolutely, of regulations. This all takes many years. This is the normal course of things.
[00:21:53] Elon Musk
If you look at, say, automotive regulations, how long did it take for seatbelts to be implemented, to be required? You know, the auto
industry fought seatbelts, I think, for more than a decade. It successfully fought any regulations on seatbelts even though the
numbers were extremely obvious. If you had seatbelts on, you would be far less likely to die or be seriously injured. It was
unequivocal. And the industry fought this for years successfully. Eventually, after many, many people died, regulators insisted on
seatbelts. This is a -- This time frame is not relevant to AI. You can't take 10 years from a point of which it's dangerous. It's too late.
[00:22:47] Joe Rogan
And you feel like this is decades away or years away from being too late. If you have this fatalistic attitude, and you feel like it's going
-- We're in an almost like a doomsday countdown.
[00:23:07] Elon Musk
It's not necessarily a doomsday countdown. It's a-
[00:23:10] Joe Rogan
Out of control countdown?
[00:23:12] Elon Musk
Out of control, yeah. People quote the singularity, and that's probably a good way to think about it. It's a singularity. It's hard to
predict like a black hole, what happens past the event horizon.
[00:23:23] Joe Rogan
Right. So, once it's implemented, it's very difficult because it would be able to-
[00:23:26] Elon Musk
Once the genie is out of the bottle, what's going to happen?
[00:23:29] Joe Rogan
Right. And it will be able to improve itself.
[00:23:32] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:23:34] Joe Rogan
That's where it gets spooky, right? The idea that it can do thousands of years of innovation very, very quickly.
[00:23:40] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:23:42] Joe Rogan
And, then, it will be just ridiculous.
[00:23:44] Elon Musk
Ridiculous.
[00:23:45] Joe Rogan
We will be like this ridiculous biological shitting, pissing thing trying to stop the gods. "No, stop. We're like living with a finite lifespan,
and watching, you know, Norman Rockwell paintings."
[00:23:59] Elon Musk
It could be terrible, and it could be great. It's not clear.
[00:24:03] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:24:04] Elon Musk
But one thing is for sure, we will not control it.
[00:24:08] Joe Rogan
Do you think that it's likely that we will merge somehow or another with this sort of technology, and it'll augment what we are now, or
do you think it will replace us?
[00:24:23] Elon Musk
Well, that's the scenario. The merge scenario with AI is the one that seems like probably the best. Like if-
[00:24:33] Joe Rogan
For us?
[00:24:33] Elon Musk
Yes. Like if you can't beat it, join it. That's-
[00:24:41] Joe Rogan
Yes, yeah.
[00:24:41] Elon Musk
You know. So, from a long-term existential standpoint, that's like the purpose of Neuralink is to create a high bandwidth interface to
the brain such that we can be symbiotic with AI because we have a bandwidth problem. You just can't communicate through fingers.
It's too slow.
[00:25:08] Joe Rogan
And where's Neuralink at right now?
[00:25:13] Elon Musk
I think. we'll have something interesting to announce in a few months. That's, at least, an order of magnitude better than anything
else. I think better than, probably, anyone thinks is possible.
[00:25:23] Joe Rogan
How much can you talk about that right now?
[00:25:25] Elon Musk
I don't want to jump the gun on that.
[00:25:28] Joe Rogan
But what's like the ultimate? What's the idea behind that? Like, what are you trying to accomplish with it? What would you like best
case scenario?
[00:25:37] Joe Rogan
I think, best case scenario, we effectively merge with AI where AI serves as a tertiary cognition layer, where we've got the limbic
system. Kind of the, you know, primitive brain essentially. You got the cortex. So, you're currently in a symbiotic relationship. Your
cortex and limbic system are in a symbiotic relationship. And, generally, people like their cortex, and they like their limbic system. I
haven't met anyone who wants to delete their limbic system or delete their cortex. Everybody seems to like both.
[00:26:12] Elon Musk
And the cortex is mostly in service to the limbic system. People may think that the thinking part of themselves is in charge, but it's
mostly their limbic system that's in charge. And the cortex is trying to make the limbic system happy. That's what most of that
computing power is. It's launched towards, "How can I make the limbic system happy?" That's what it's trying to do.
[00:26:38] Elon Musk
Now, if we do have a third layer, which is the AI extension of yourself, that is also symbiotic. And there's enough bandwidth between
the cortex and the AI extension of yourself, such that the AI doesn't de facto separate. Then, that could be a good outcome. That
could be quite a positive outcome for the future.
[00:27:03] Joe Rogan
So, instead of replacing us, it will radically change our capabilities?
[00:27:08] Elon Musk
Yes. It will enable anyone who wants to have super human cognition, anyone who wants. This is not a matter of earning power
because your earning power would be vastly greater after you do it. So, it's just like anyone who wants can just do it in theory. That's
the theory. And if that's the case then, and let's say billions of people do it, then the outcome for humanity will be the sum of human
will, the sum of billions of people's desire for the future.
[00:27:55] Joe Rogan
That billions of people with enhanced cognitive ability?
[00:27:59] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:28:00] Joe Rogan
Radically enhanced?
[00:28:00] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:28:00] Joe Rogan
And which would be -- It -- Buthow much different than people today? Like if you had to explain it to a person who didn't really
understand what you're saying, like how much different are you talking about? When you say radically improved, like, what do you
mean? You mean mind reading?
[00:28:19] Elon Musk
It will be difficult to really appreciate the difference. It's kind of likehow much smarter are you with a phone or computer than without?
You're vastly smarter actually. You know, you can answer any question. If you connect to the internet, you can answer any question
pretty much instantly, any calculation, that your phone's memory is essentially perfect. You can remember flawlessly. Your phone
can remember videos, pictures, everything perfectly. That's the-
[00:28:55] Elon Musk
Your phone is already an extension of you. You're already a cyborg. You don't even -- What most people don't realize, they are
already a cyborg. That phone is an extension of yourself. It's just that the data rate, the rate at which -- The communication rate
between you and the cybernetic extension of yourself, that is your phone and computer, is slow. It's very slow.
[00:29:22] Elon Musk
And that is like a tiny straw of information flow between your biological self and your digital self. And we need to make that tiny straw
like a giant river. A huge high band with the interface. It's an interface problem, data rate problem. It's all the data rate problem that I
think we can hang on to human machine symbiosis through the long term. And then, people may decide that they want to retain their
biological self or not. I think they'll probably choose to retain the biological self.
[00:30:07] Joe Rogan
Versus some sort of Ray Kurzweil scenario where they download themselves into a computer?
[00:30:12] Elon Musk
You will be essentially snapshotted into a computer at any time. If your biological self dies, you could probably just upload it to a new
unit literally.
[00:30:22] Joe Rogan
Pass that whiskey. We're getting crazy over here. Thisis getting ridiculous.
[00:30:27] Elon Musk
Down the rabbit hole.
[00:30:28] Joe Rogan
Grab that sucker. Give me some of that. Thisis too freaky. See, if I was just talking-
[00:30:34] Elon Musk
I've been thinking about this for a long time, by the way.
[00:30:35] Joe Rogan
I believe you. If I was talking to one -- Cheers, by the way.
[00:30:39] Elon Musk
Cheers. It is a great whiskey.
[00:30:40] Joe Rogan
Thank you. I don't know where this came. Who brought this to us?
[00:30:43] Jaime
I'm trying to remember. I can't-
[00:30:45] Joe Rogan
Somebody gave it to us. Old Camp. Whoever it was-
[00:30:47] Elon Musk
It's good.
[00:30:51] Joe Rogan
... thanks.
[00:30:52] Elon Musk
It's good.
[00:30:52] Joe Rogan
Yeah, it is good. This is just inevitable. Again, going back to when you decided to have this fatalistic viewpoint. So, you weren't -- You
tried to warn people. You talked about this pretty extensively. I've read several interviews where you talked about this. And then, you
just sort of just said, "Okay, it just is. Let's just-" And, in a way, by communicating the potential for -- I mean, for sure, you're getting
the warning out to some people.
[00:31:15] Elon Musk
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I was really going on the warning quite a lot. I was warning everyone I could. Yeah, I've met with Obama and
just for one reason, like, "Better watch out."
[00:31:32] Joe Rogan
Just talk about AI.
[00:31:33] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:31:34] Joe Rogan
And what did he say? So, what about Hillary? Worry about her first. Shh, everybody, quiet.
[00:31:39] Elon Musk
He listened. He certainly listened. I met with Congress. I met with -- Iwas at a meeting of all 50 governors and talked about just the
AI danger. And I talked to everyone I could. No one seemed to realize where this was going.
[00:32:05] Joe Rogan
Is it that, or do they just assume that someone smarter than them is already taking care of it? Because when people hear about
something like AI, it's almost abstract. It's almost like it's so hard to wrap your head around it.
[00:32:18] Elon Musk
It is.
[00:32:18] Joe Rogan
By the time it happens, it will be too late?
[00:32:22] Elon Musk
Yeah. I think, they didn't quite understand it, or didn't think it was near term, or not sure what to do about it. And I said, like, you know,
an obvious thing to do is to just establish a committee, government committee, to gain insight. You know, before you oversight,
before you do make regulations, you should like try to understand what's going on. And then, you have an insight committee. Then,
once they learn what's going on, you get up to speed. Then, they can make maybe some rules or proposed some rules. And that
would be probably a safer way to go about things.
[00:33:06] Joe Rogan
It seems -- Imean, I know that it's probably something that the government's supposed to handle, but it seems like I wouldn't want
the -- I don't want the government to handle this.
[00:33:15] Elon Musk
Who do you want to handle this?
[00:33:16] Joe Rogan
I want you to handle this.
[00:33:17] Elon Musk
Oh geez.
[00:33:18] Joe Rogan
Yeah. I feel like you're the one who could bring the bell better because if Mike Pence starts talking about AI, I'm like, "Shut up, bitch.
You don't know anything about AI. Come on, man. He doesn't know what he's talking about." That's just games.
[00:33:28] Elon Musk
I don't have the power to regulate other companies. I don't if I'm supposed to, but you know.
[00:33:32] Joe Rogan
Right, but maybe companies could agree. Maybe there could be some sort of a -- What I mean is wehave agreements where you're
not supposed to dump toxic waste into the ocean, you're not supposed to do certain things that could be terribly damaging, even
though they would be profitable. Maybe this is one of those things.
[00:33:48] Joe Rogan
Maybe we should realize that you can't hit the switch on something that's going to be able to think for itself and make up its own mind
as to whether or not it wants to survive or not, and whether or not it thinks you're a threat, or whether or not it thinks you're useless.
Like, "Why do I keep this dumb finite life form alive? Why? Why keep this thing around? It's just stupid. It just keeps polluting
everything. It's shitting everywhere it goes, lighting everything on fire, and shooting at each other. Why would I keep this stupid thing
alive? Because, sometimes, it makes good music, you know. Sometimes it makes great movies. Sometimes it makes beautiful art,
and sometimes -- you know. Sometimes it's cool to hang out with. Like with my-
[00:34:24] Elon Musk
Yes, for all those reasons.
[00:34:24] Joe Rogan
Yeah. For us, those are great reasons.
[00:34:27] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:34:27] Joe Rogan
But for anything objective standing outside that go, "This is definitely a flawed system." This is like if you went to the jungle and you
watch these chimps engage in warfare and beat each other with wooden sticks.
[00:34:36] Elon Musk
Chimps are really mean.
[00:34:36] Joe Rogan
They're fucking real mean.
[00:34:36] Elon Musk
They're fucking mean.
[00:34:38] Joe Rogan
They're real mean.
[00:34:38] Elon Musk
I saw a movie, Chimpanzee. I thought it was going to be like some Disney thing. Like, holy cow.
[00:34:39] Joe Rogan
What movie was that?
[00:34:43] Elon Musk
It's called Chimpanzee.
[00:34:44] Joe Rogan
Is it a documentary?
[00:34:46] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah. It's kind of like a documentary. I was like, "Damn,these chimps are mean."
[00:34:50] Joe Rogan
They're mean.
[00:34:51] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:34:52] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:34:52] Elon Musk
They're cruel.
[00:34:53] Joe Rogan
Yeah. They're calculated. Yeah.
[00:34:55] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:34:56] Joe Rogan
They sneak up on each other and-
[00:34:58] Elon Musk
Like, I didn't realize chimps did calculated cruelty.
[00:35:01] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:35:02] Elon Musk
I was pretty -- I leftthat meeting kinda like, "This is dark."
[00:35:07] Joe Rogan
Right. Well, we know better because we've advanced. But if we hadn't, we'd be like, "Man, I don't want to fucking live in a house. I like
the chimp ways, bro. Chimp ways to go. This is it, man, chimp life. You know, we got-
[00:35:19] Elon Musk
Simple chimp life.
[00:35:19] Joe Rogan
Chimp life right now. But we, in a way, to the AI, might be like those chimps and like, "These stupid fucks launching missiles out of
drones, and shooting each other underwater." Like we're crazy. We got torpedoes, and submarines, and fucking airplanes that drop
nuclear bombs indiscriminately on cities. We're assholes.
[00:35:43] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:35:44] Joe Rogan
They might go, "Why are they doing this?" It might, like, look at our politics, look at what we do in terms of our food system, what kind
of food we force down each other's throats. And they might go, "These people are crazy. They don't even look after themselves."
[00:35:59] Elon Musk
I don't know. I mean, howmuch do we think about chimps? Not much.
[00:36:02] Joe Rogan
Very little.
[00:36:03] Elon Musk
It's like-
[00:36:04] Joe Rogan
It's true.
[00:36:04] Elon Musk
... these chimps are at war. This like look -- It's likegroups of chimps just attack each other, and they kill each other. They torture
each other. That's pretty bad. They hunt monkeys. They're -- Like this is probably the most, but, you know. I mean, when was the
last time you watched chimps?
[00:36:27] Joe Rogan
Me?
[00:36:27] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:36:27] Joe Rogan
All the time.
[00:36:28] Elon Musk
You do.
[00:36:29] Joe Rogan
You're talking to the wrong guy.
[00:36:30] Elon Musk
Okay. Well, unfortunately, yeah.
[00:36:30] Joe Rogan
This fucking podcast, dude, we're talking about chimps every episode.
[00:36:33] Elon Musk
It's chimp city? Okay.
[00:36:34] Joe Rogan
People are laughing right now. Yeah, constantly. I'm obsessed.
[00:36:38] Elon Musk
Okay.
[00:36:38] Joe Rogan
I saw that David Attenborough documentary on chimps where they were eating those colobus monkeys and ripping them apart.
[00:36:43] Elon Musk
Yes, this was rough.
[00:36:43] Joe Rogan
I saw that many, many years ago.
[00:36:45] Elon Musk
It's gruesome.
[00:36:45] Joe Rogan
It just changed how-
[00:36:46] Elon Musk
Gruesome.
[00:36:46] Joe Rogan
I go, "Oh, this is why people are so crazy. We came from that thing."
[00:36:50] Elon Musk
Yeah, exactly.
[00:36:51] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:36:52] Elon Musk
It is the colobus.
[00:36:52] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:36:54] Elon Musk
They got, like, better philosophy.
[00:36:55] Joe Rogan
Yeah, they're like swingers.
[00:36:57] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:36:57] Joe Rogan
Yeah, they really are. They seem to be way more -- Even than us, way more civilized.
[00:37:05] Elon Musk
They just seem to resolve everything with sex.
[00:37:08] Joe Rogan
Yeah. The only rules they have is the mom won't bang the son. That's it.
[00:37:11] Elon Musk
Okay.
[00:37:12] Joe Rogan
That's it. Mom won't bang her sons.They're good women.
[00:37:15] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:37:16] Joe Rogan
Good women in the bonobo community.Everybody else is banging it out.
[00:37:19] Elon Musk
Yeah. I haven't seen the Bonobo Movie.
[00:37:24] Joe Rogan
Well, they're disturbing just at a zoo of bonobos at the zoo.
[00:37:27] Elon Musk
They're just constantly going.
[00:37:28] Joe Rogan
Constantly fucking, yeah. It's all they do.
[00:37:30] Elon Musk
It's just one stuff.
[00:37:31] Joe Rogan
Yeah. And they don't care, gay, straight, whatever. Let's just fuck. What's with these labels?
[00:37:38] Elon Musk
I haven't seen bonobos at a zoo. I just probably like-
[00:37:40] Joe Rogan
I don't think I have either.
[00:37:41] Elon Musk
And not on the PJ section.
[00:37:42] Joe Rogan
Yeah, I don't think they have them at many zoos. We've looked at it before too, didn't we?
[00:37:46] Elon Musk
It's probably pretty awkward.
[00:37:47] Joe Rogan
Yeah. I think that's the thing. They don't like to keep regular chimps at zoos because bonobos are just always jacking off and-
[00:37:52] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:37:52] Joe Rogan
Fucking it.
[00:37:53] Jaime
In San Diego.
[00:37:53] Joe Rogan
What's that? They have in San Diego?
[00:37:54] Jaime
San Diego's got some, yeah.
[00:37:55] Joe Rogan
Really? Interesting.
[00:37:58] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:37:59] Joe Rogan
Probably separate them. Yeah.
[00:37:59] Elon Musk
I mean, how many are there in a cage, you know? I was like-
[00:38:01] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:38:01] Elon Musk
... "It's going to be pretty intense."
[00:38:02] Joe Rogan
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, we're a weird thing, you know. And I've often wondered whether or not we're -- you know, our ultimate goal is to
give birth to some new thing. And that's why we're so obsessed with technology because it's not like this technology is really -- I
mean, it's certainly enhancing our lives too in a certain way, but, I mean, ultimately, is it making people happier right now? Most
technology I would say no. In fact, you and I were talking about social media before this about just not having Instagram on your
phone, and not dealing, and you feel better.
[00:38:35] Elon Musk
Yes. I think, one of the issues with social media, it's been pointed out by many people, is that, I think, maybe particularly Instagram
people look like they have a much better life than they really do.
[00:38:52] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:38:53] Elon Musk
So-
[00:38:53] Joe Rogan
By design.
[00:38:55] Elon Musk
Yeah. People are posting pictures of when they're really happy. They're modifying those pictures to be better looking. Even if they're
not modifying the pictures, they're, at least, selecting the pictures for the best lighting, the best angle. So, people basically seem they
are way better looking than they basically really are.
[00:39:15] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:39:17] Elon Musk
And they're way happier seeming than they really are. So, if you look at everyone on Instagram, you might think, "Man, there are all
these happy beautiful people, and I'm not that good looking, and I am not happy. So, I must suck," you know. And that's going to
make you feel sad; when, in fact, those people you think are super happy, actually, not that happy. Some of them are really
depressed. They're very sad. Some of the happiest-seeming people are actually some of the saddest people in reality. And nobody
looks good all the time. It doesn't matter who you are.
[00:39:56] Joe Rogan
No. It's not even something you should want.
[00:40:00] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:40:00] Joe Rogan
Why do you want to look great all the time?
[00:40:02] Elon Musk
Yeah, exactly. So, I think things like that can make people quite sad just by comparison because you're sort of -- People generally
think of themselves relative to others. It's like we are constantly re-baselining our expectations. And you can see to say if you watch
some show like Naked and Afraid, or, you know, if you just go and try living in the woods by yourself for a while, and you're like, "The
land that civilization is quite great." People want to come back to civilization pretty fast on Naked or Afraid.
[00:40:40] Joe Rogan
Wasn't there a Theodore quote, that "Comparison is the thief of joy."
[00:40:45] Elon Musk
Yeah. Happiness is reality minus expectations.
[00:40:51] Joe Rogan
That's great too, but the comparison is the thief of joy really holds true to people. Is it?
[00:40:56] Jaime
Theodore Roosevelt.
[00:40:56] Joe Rogan
Roosevelt, fascinating. And when you're thinking about Instagram, because what essentially Instagram is for a lot of people is you're
giving them the opportunity to be their own PR agent, and they always go towards the glamorous, you know. And when anybody
does show, you know, #nofilter, they really do do that. "Oh, you're so brave. Look at you, no makeup," you know, which theylook
good anyway.
[00:41:21] Joe Rogan
"You look great. What are you doing? Oh my God. You don't have makeup on. You still look hotas fuck. You know what you're
doing. I know what you're doing too." They're letting you know. And then, they're feeding off that comment section. Sort of sitting
there like it's a fresh stream of love. Like you're getting right up to the sources as it comes out of the earth, and you're sucking that
sweet, sweet love water.
[00:41:41] Elon Musk
A lot of emojies, smoggy emojies.
[00:41:42] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:41:43] Elon Musk
A lot of emojies.
[00:41:44] Joe Rogan
My concern is not so much what Instagram is. It's that I didn't think that people had the need for this or the expectation for some sort
of technology that allows them to constantly get love and adulation from strangers, and comments, and this ability to project this sort
of distorted version of who you really are.
[00:42:03] Joe Rogan
But I worry about where it goes. Like what's the next one? What's the next one? Like, where's is it? Is it going to be augmented to
some sort of a weird augmented or virtual sort of Instagram type situation where you're not going to want to live in this real world,
you're going to want to interface with this sort of world that you've created through your social media page and some next level thing.
[00:42:25] Elon Musk
Yeah. Go live in the simulation.
[00:42:28] Joe Rogan
Yeah, man.
[00:42:28] Elon Musk
In the simulation.
[00:42:29] Joe Rogan
Some ready player one type shit that's real. That seems -- we have that HTC vibe here. I've only done it a couple times quite
honestly because it kind of freaks me out.
[00:42:38] Elon Musk
Sure.
[00:42:38] Joe Rogan
My kids fucking love it, man. They love it. They love playing these weirdo games and walking around that headset on. But part of me
watching them do it goes, "Wow, I wonder if this is like the precursor." Just sort of like if you look at that phone that Gordon Gekko
had on the beach and you compare that-
[00:42:56] Elon Musk
Yes, the big cell phone.
[00:42:57] Joe Rogan
Yeah, you pair that to like a Galaxy Note 9.
[00:43:00] Elon Musk
Sure.
[00:43:00] Joe Rogan
Like how the fuckdid that become that, right? And I wonder when I see this HTC Vibe, I'm like, "Whatis that thing going to be 10
years from now when we're making fun of what it is now?" I mean, howingrained, and how connected and interconnected is this
technology going to be in our life?
[00:43:21] Elon Musk
It will be, at some point, indistinguishable from reality.
[00:43:27] Joe Rogan
We will lose this. We'll lose this. Like you and I are just looking at each other throughour eyes.
[00:43:31] Elon Musk
Are we?
[00:43:31] Joe Rogan
I see you. You see me, I think, I hope.
[00:43:33] Elon Musk
You think so?
[00:43:33] Joe Rogan
I think you probably have regular eyes.
[00:43:36] Elon Musk
This could be some simulation.
[00:43:38] Joe Rogan
It could. Do you entertain that?
[00:43:42] Elon Musk
Well, the argument for the simulation, I think, is quite strong because if you assume any improvements at all over time, any
improvement, 1%, 0.1%, just extend the time frame, make it a thousand years, a million years. The universe is 13.8 billion years old.
Civilization, if you count it, if you're very generous, civilization is maybe 7000 or 8000 years old if you count it from the first writing.
This is nothing. This is nothing.
[00:44:17] Elon Musk
So, if you assume any rate of improvement at all, then games will be indistinguishable from reality, or civilization will end. One of
those two things will occur. Therefore, we are most likely in a simulation.
[00:44:40] Joe Rogan
Or we're on our way to one, right?
[00:44:42] Elon Musk
Because we exist.
[00:44:42] Joe Rogan
Well, not just because we exist.
[00:44:42] Elon Musk
Pretty exactly.
[00:44:42] Joe Rogan
We could most certainly be on the road. We could be on the road to that, right. it doesn't mean that it has to have already happened.
[00:44:50] Elon Musk
It could be in base reality. It could be in base reality.
[00:44:52] Joe Rogan
We could be here now on our way to the road or on our way to the destination where this can never happen again, where we are
completely ingrained in some sort of an artificial technology or some sort of a symbiotic relationship with the internet or the next level
of sharing information. But, right now, we're not there yet. That's possible too, right? It's possible that a simulation is, one day, going
to be inevitable, that we're going to have something that's indistinguishable from regular reality, but maybe we're not there yet. That's
also possible.
[00:45:24] Joe Rogan
Yes, it is.
[00:45:24] Elon Musk
Though we're not quite there yet. This is real. You want to touchthat wood?
[00:45:28] Elon Musk
It feel very real.
[00:45:29] Joe Rogan
Maybe that's why everybody is like into like mason jars and shit.
[00:45:32] Elon Musk
Mason jars.
[00:45:33] Joe Rogan
Suede shoes. People that like craft restaurants, and they want raw wood. Everyone wants the metal people. It seems like people are
like longing toward some weird log cabin type nostalgia.
[00:45:44] Elon Musk
Sure, reality.
[00:45:45] Joe Rogan
Yeah, like holding on. Like clinging.
[00:45:48] Elon Musk
Sure.
[00:45:48] Joe Rogan
Dragging their nails through the man like, "Don'ttake me yet."
[00:45:52] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:45:52] Joe Rogan
"I want to-"
[00:45:53] Elon Musk
But then, people go get a mason jar with a wine stem or a handle. That's dark.
[00:46:00] Joe Rogan
It makes me-
[00:46:00] Elon Musk
It makes me lose faith in humanity.
[00:46:01] Joe Rogan
Mason jar, wine stem and a handle, they have those?
[00:46:03] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:46:03] Joe Rogan
The sturdy people. That's just assholes. That's like people make pet rocks.
[00:46:07] Elon Musk
Rough.
[00:46:08] Joe Rogan
Right. Some people are just assholes. They take advantage of our generous nature.
[00:46:13] Elon Musk
It was made with the wine stem. Made with handle.
[00:46:17] Joe Rogan
They made it that way?
[00:46:18] Elon Musk
Yes. They're manufactured like that.
[00:46:18] Joe Rogan
So, the one way, they welded it on to the mason jar. You fuck.
[00:46:19] Elon Musk
But that would be fine if there was like glued it on or something.
[00:46:26] Joe Rogan
Right. There would be like-
[00:46:26] Elon Musk
But it was made that way.
[00:46:28] Joe Rogan
Like trash shit. Oh, this is disgusting. Look at this. It is right there.
[00:46:30] Elon Musk
Yes, it's pretty harsh. Yup.
[00:46:32] Joe Rogan
This is terrible. Yeah. That's like fake breasts that are designed to be hard. Like fake breasts from the '60s. It's like if you really long
for the ones with ripples, here we go. Yeah. That's almost what that is.
[00:46:51] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:46:52] Joe Rogan
What are you going to do, man? There's nothing, you know. There's nothing you can do tostop certain terrible ideas from
propagating.
[00:46:59] Elon Musk
Yeah. Anyway, I don't want to sound like things are too dark because I think like you kind of have to be optimistic about the future.
There's no point in being pessimistic. It's just too negative because it is-
[00:47:17] Joe Rogan
It doesn't help.
[00:47:17] Elon Musk
It doesn't help, you know. I think you want to be -- I mean, my theory is like you'd rather be optimistic. I think, I'd rather be optimistic
and wrong than pessimistic and right.
[00:47:28] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:47:29] Elon Musk
At least, we're on that side.
[00:47:30] Joe Rogan
Right, yeah.
[00:47:31] Elon Musk
Because if you're pessimistic, it's going to be miserable.
[00:47:34] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Yeah, nobody wants to be around you anyway if it's the end of the world. You're like, "I fucking told you, bro."
[00:47:41] Elon Musk
Yeah, exactly.
[00:47:42] Joe Rogan
The world is ending. Yeah. It is way -- it is for all.
[00:47:45] Elon Musk
I did my part.
[00:47:45] Joe Rogan
I mean-
[00:47:47] Elon Musk
Enjoy the journey.
[00:47:48] Joe Rogan
Right. If you really want to get morose, I mean, it is what it is for all of us anyway. We're all going to go, unless something changes.
[00:47:56] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:47:56] Joe Rogan
I mean, ultimately, you know, even if we just sort of existed as humans forever, we'd still eventually would be like the heat death of
the universe-
[00:48:06] Elon Musk
Gazillion years from now.
[00:48:08] Joe Rogan
Right, even if we get it past the sun.
[00:48:09] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:48:10] Joe Rogan
If we figure out a way past the sun running out of juice.
[00:48:13] Elon Musk
Eventually, it's going to end. It's just a question of when.
[00:48:16] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:48:17] Elon Musk
So, it really is all about the journey.
[00:48:20] Joe Rogan
Or transcendence from whatever we are now into something that doesn't worry about death.
[00:48:27] Elon Musk
The universe, as we know it, will dissipate into a fine mist of cold nothingness eventually.
[00:48:36] Joe Rogan
And then, someone's going to bottle it and put a fragrance to it, sell it to French people in another dimension.
[00:48:42] Elon Musk
It's just a very long time.
[00:48:44] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:48:44] Elon Musk
So, I think it's really just about, how can we make it last longer?
[00:48:49] Joe Rogan
Are you a proponent of the multi-universe's theory? Do you believe that there are many, many universes, and that even if this one
fades out that there's other ones that are starting fresh right now, and there's an infinite number of them, and they're just constantly in
a never-ending cycle of birth and death?
[00:49:08] Elon Musk
I think most likely. This is just about probability. There are many, many simulations. These simulations, we might as well call them
reality, or we could call them the multiverse.
[00:49:20] Joe Rogan
These simulations you believe are created like someone has manufactured-
[00:49:23] Elon Musk
They're running on the substrate.
[00:49:26] Joe Rogan
So-
[00:49:27] Elon Musk
That substrate is probably boring.
[00:49:29] Joe Rogan
Boring?
[00:49:30] Elon Musk
Mmhmm.
[00:49:30] Joe Rogan
How so?
[00:49:30] Elon Musk
Well, when we create a simulation like a game or a movie, it's the distillation of what's interesting about life. You know, it takes a year
to shoot an action movie. And then, that's all to slow down into two or three hours. So, let me tell you, if you've seen an action movie
being filmed, it's freaking -- It's boring. It'ssuper boring. It takes -- There's like lots of takes. Everything's in a green screen. It looks
pretty goofy. It doesn't look cool. But once you had the CGI, and have great editing, it's amazing.
[00:50:10] Elon Musk
So, I think, most likely, if we're a simulation, it's really boring outside the simulation because why would you make simulation as
boring? You'd make simulation way more interesting than base reality.
[00:50:26] Joe Rogan
That is if this right now is a simulation.
[00:50:29] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:50:30] Joe Rogan
And, ultimately, inevitably, as long as we don't die or get hit by a meteor, we're going to create some sort of simulation if we continue
on the same technological path we're on right now.
[00:50:42] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:50:42] Joe Rogan
But we might not be there yet. So, it might not be a simulation here. But it most likely is you feel other places.
[00:50:52] Elon Musk
This notion of a place or where is-
[00:50:56] Joe Rogan
Flawed?
[00:50:56] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:50:57] Joe Rogan
Flawed perception.
[00:50:58] Elon Musk
Like that if you have that, sort of, that vibe you have, which is for the -- that's wasmade by valve, and it's really valve that made it.
HTC did the hardware, but it's really a valve thing.
[00:51:14] Joe Rogan
Makers of Half-life.
[00:51:16] Elon Musk
Yes. Great company.
[00:51:19] Joe Rogan
Great company.
[00:51:26] Elon Musk
When you're in that virtual reality, which is only going to get better, where are you? Where are you really?
[00:51:37] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:51:37] Elon Musk
You aren't anywhere.
[00:51:38] Joe Rogan
Well, whereas-
[00:51:39] Elon Musk
You're in the computer.
[00:51:40] Joe Rogan
You know, what defines where you are?
[00:51:42] Elon Musk
Exactly.
[00:51:43] Joe Rogan
Right.
[00:51:43] Elon Musk
It's your perception.
[00:51:44] Joe Rogan
Is it your perceptions or is it, you know, a scale that we have under your butt. You're right here. I've measured you. You're the same
weight as you were when you left. But meanwhile, your experience is probably different-
[00:51:53] Elon Musk
Why do you think you're where you are right now? You might not be.
[00:51:56] Joe Rogan
I'll buck up a joint if you keep talking. Your man is just going to come in here. We might have to lock the door.
[00:52:02] Elon Musk
Right now, you think you're in a studio in LA.
[00:52:03] Joe Rogan
That's what I heard.
[00:52:04] Elon Musk
You might be in a computer.
[00:52:05] Joe Rogan
Man, I think about this all the time. Yeah, I mean, it's unquestionable that one day that will be the case, as long as we keep going, as
long as nothing interrupts us, and if we start from scratch, and, you know, we're single-celled organisms all over again. And then,
millions and millions of years later, we become the next thing that is us with creativity and the ability to change this environment. It's
going to keep monkeying with things until it figures out a way to change reality. To change -- Imean, almost like punch a hole through
what is this thing into what what it wants it to be and create new things. And then, those new things will intersect with other people's
new things, and there will be this ultimate pathway of infinite ideas and expression all through technology.
[00:52:56] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:52:57] Joe Rogan
And then, we're going to wonder like, "Why are wehere? What are we doing?"
[00:53:03] Elon Musk
Let's find out.
[00:53:06] Joe Rogan
Well-
[00:53:06] Elon Musk
I mean, I think we should take the actions, the set of actions that are most likely to make the future better.
[00:53:14] Joe Rogan
Yes, right.
[00:53:15] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:53:15] Joe Rogan
Right. Right. And then, we evaluate those actions to make sure that it's true.
[00:53:21] Elon Musk
Well, I think there's a movement to that. I mean, in terms of like a social movement. I think some of it's misguided, and some of it's
exaggerated, and there's a lot of people that are fighting for their side out there. But it seems like the general trend of, like, social
awareness seems to be much more heightened now than has ever been in any other time in history because of our ability to express
ourselves instantaneously to each other through Facebook, or Twitter, or what have you. And that the trend is to abandon
preconceived notions, abandon prejudice, abandon discrimination, and promote kindness and happiness as much as possible.
Looking at this knife? Somebody gave it to me. Sorry.
[00:54:05] Elon Musk
Yeah. What is it?
[00:54:06] Joe Rogan
Fuck you. My friend, Donnie, brought this with him, and it just stayed here. I have a real samurai sword, if you want to play with that. I
know you're into weapons. That's from the 1500s. Samurai's something on the table.
[00:54:15] Elon Musk
Good.
[00:54:16] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[00:54:17] Elon Musk
That's cool.
[00:54:17] Joe Rogan
I'll grab it. Hold on. Yeah, that's legit samurai sword from an actual samurai from the 1500s. If you pull out that blade, that blade was
made the old way where a master craftsman-
[00:54:39] Elon Musk
Folded metal?
[00:54:40] Joe Rogan
Folded that metal and hammered it down over and over again over a long period of time, and honed that blade into what it is now.
What's crazy is that more than 500 years later, that thing is still pristine. I mean, whoever took care of that and passed it down to the
next person who took care of it, and you know until it got to the podcast room, it's pretty fucking crazy.
[00:55:03] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:55:04] Joe Rogan
One day, someone's going to be looking at a Tesla like that. How many of thesefucking backdoor they pop off sideways like a
Lamborghini?
[00:55:17] Elon Musk
They should see what the Tesla can do. He didn't -- Youshould -- I'll show you how to once.
[00:55:22] Joe Rogan
Well, I've driven one. I love them.
[00:55:24] Elon Musk
Yeah, but most people don't know what it can do.
[00:55:25] Joe Rogan
In terms like ludicrous mode? In terms of like driving super fast and irresponsibly on public roads, is that what you're saying?
[00:55:32] Elon Musk
Any car can do that.
[00:55:34] Joe Rogan
Yeah. What can it do that I need to know about?
[00:55:39] Elon Musk
I mean, the Model X can do this like ballet thing to the Trans-Siberian Orchestra. It's pretty cool.
[00:55:44] Joe Rogan
Wait, it dances?
[00:55:45] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:55:45] Joe Rogan
Legitimate, like it goes around?
[00:55:46] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:55:48] Joe Rogan
Why would you program that into a car?
[00:55:54] Elon Musk
It seemed like fun.
[00:55:56] Joe Rogan
That's what I get about you. That's what's weird. Like when you showed up here, you were all smiles, and you pull out a fucking
blowtorch and not a blowtorch, but I'm like, "Look at this-"
[00:56:04] Elon Musk
Not a flamethrower.
[00:56:05] Joe Rogan
Not a flamethrower. Like, "He's having fun."
[00:56:07] Elon Musk
I want to be clear, it's definitelynot a flamethrower.
[00:56:08] Joe Rogan
But you're having fun. Like this thing, you know, you program a car to do a ballet dance, you're having fun.
[00:56:18] Elon Musk
It's great.
[00:56:18] Joe Rogan
But how do you have the time to do that? I don't understand why you're digging holes under the earth, and sending rockets into
space, and powering people in Australia. Like how the fuck do you have time to make the car dance ballet?
[00:56:31] Elon Musk
Well, I mean, in that case there were some engineers at Tesla that said, "You know, what if we make this car dance and play music?"
I'm like, "That sounds great. Please do it. Let's try to get it done in time for Christmas." We did.
[00:56:50] Joe Rogan
Is there a concern about someone just losing their mind and making it do that on the highway?
[00:56:55] Elon Musk
No, it won't do that.
[00:56:56] Joe Rogan
What if it's in bumper-to-bumper traffic?
[00:56:58] Elon Musk
Nope.
[00:56:58] Joe Rogan
No, it won't do it?
[00:57:00] Elon Musk
No. Actually, you have to sneeze drag.
[00:57:01] Joe Rogan
Oh, sneeze drag.
[00:57:02] Elon Musk
Yeah, that's why people don't know about it. But if you have the car-
[00:57:08] Joe Rogan
Well-
[00:57:08] Elon Musk
It's like it could do lots of things, lots of things.
[00:57:10] Joe Rogan
Once Reddit gets a hold of it, everyone's going to know already.
[00:57:13] Elon Musk
You just have to -- Everyone, ifyou search for it on the internet, you will find out.
[00:57:17] Joe Rogan
They will find.
[00:57:17] Elon Musk
But people don't know that they should even search for it.
[00:57:19] Joe Rogan
Well, they do now.
[00:57:22] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:57:23] Joe Rogan
Yes.
[00:57:23] Elon Musk
There's so many things about the Model X, and the Model S, and the Model 3 that people don't know about. We should probablydo
a video or something to explain it because I have close friends of mine and I say, "Do you know the car can do this?" and they're like,
"Nope."
[00:57:41] Joe Rogan
Do you want to do a video of that? Do you like the fact that some people don't know?
[00:57:46] Elon Musk
No, I think it's probably not. We should tell people.
[00:57:49] Joe Rogan
Yeah, probably.
[00:57:50] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:57:50] Joe Rogan
That would help your product. I mean, it's not like you don't sell enough of them. You sell almost too many of them, right.
[00:58:00] Elon Musk
I mean, I think, a Tesla is the most fun thing you could possibly buy ever. That's what it's meant to be. Well, our goal is to make -- It's
not exactly a car. It's actually a thing to maximize enjoyment, make as maximum fun.
[00:58:23] Joe Rogan
Okay. Electronic, like big screen, laptop, ridiculous speed, handling, all that stuff.
[00:58:33] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:58:33] Joe Rogan
Do you have a-
[00:58:34] Elon Musk
And we're going to put video games in it.
[00:58:36] Joe Rogan
You are?
[00:58:37] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[00:58:37] Joe Rogan
Is that wise?
[00:58:39] Elon Musk
Well-
[00:58:39] Joe Rogan
What kind of video games? Candy Crush?
[00:58:40] Elon Musk
You won't be able to drive while you're playing the video game. But, like, for example, we're just putting the Atari emulator, RAM
emulator in it. So, we'll play a Missile Command, and Lunar Lander, and a bunch of other things. Yeah.
[00:58:53] Joe Rogan
That sounds cool.
[00:58:54] Elon Musk
It's pretty fun.
[00:58:55] Joe Rogan
I like that.
[00:58:55] Elon Musk
Yeah. I mean, probe the interface for Missile Command because it's too hard with the old trackball. So, there's a touch screen
version of Missile Command. So, you have a chance.
[00:59:07] Joe Rogan
Do you -- You have an old car, don't you? Don't you have like an old Jaguar?
[00:59:11] Elon Musk
Yeah. How did you know that? Let's pause for that. I have a'61 series 1 E-type Jaguar.
[00:59:17] Joe Rogan
I love cars.
[00:59:18] Elon Musk
It's great.
[00:59:18] Joe Rogan
Yeah, I love old cars.
[00:59:19] Elon Musk
The only-
[00:59:19] Joe Rogan
That's one of the things-
[00:59:21] Elon Musk
Yeah, the only two gassing cars I have are that and an old -- like aFord Model T that a friend of mine gave me. Those are my only
two gasoline cars.
[00:59:33] Joe Rogan
Is the Ford Model T all stock? Oh, there's your car. Look at that.
[00:59:37] Elon Musk
I have the convertible.
[00:59:39] Joe Rogan
That is a gorgeous car.
[00:59:42] Elon Musk
It's a soft car.
[00:59:42] Joe Rogan
God, that's a good looking car.
[00:59:44] Elon Musk
Yes.
[00:59:45] Joe Rogan
Is that yours?
[00:59:46] Elon Musk
That is -- It's not mine. It's extremely close to mine, but I don't have a front license plate on mine.
[00:59:52] Joe Rogan
It's a beautiful car. They nailed it. That new type-
[00:59:55] Elon Musk
Mine looks like that.
[00:59:55] Joe Rogan
God, they nailed that.
[00:59:57] Elon Musk
That's what mine looks like. Maybe it is mine.
[01:00:00] Joe Rogan
There's certain iconic shapes.
[01:00:04] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:00:04] Joe Rogan
And there's something about those cars too. They're not as capable, not nearly as capable as like a Tesla, but there's something
really satisfying about the mechanical aspect of like feeling the steering, and the-
[01:00:16] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:00:17] Joe Rogan
... grinding of the gears and the shifting. Something about those that's extremely satisfying even though they're not that competent.
Like I have a 1993 Porsche 964. It's like lightweight. It's an RS America. It's not very fast. It's not like in comparison to a Tesla or
anything like that. But the thing about it is like it's mechanical, you feel it. Everything's like-
[01:00:43] Elon Musk
Sure.
[01:00:44] Joe Rogan
It's like it gives you this weird thrill, like you're on this clunky ride, and there's all this feedback. There's something to that.
[01:00:52] Elon Musk
Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, yeah. My E Type is like basically no electronics.
[01:00:58] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:01:00] Elon Musk
It's-
[01:01:00] Joe Rogan
And so, you like that, but you also like electronics.
[01:01:03] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:01:04] Joe Rogan
Like Tesla Sup, it's like the far end of electronics.
[01:01:09] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:01:10] Joe Rogan
It drives itself.
[01:01:12] Elon Musk
It's driving itself better every day.
[01:01:14] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:01:15] Elon Musk
We're about to release the software that will enable you to just turn it on, and it'll drive from highway on ramp, to highway exit, do lane
changes, overtake other cars-
[01:01:25] Joe Rogan
Jesus.
[01:01:25] Elon Musk
To go from one interchange to the next. If you get on, say, the 405, get off 300 miles later, and go through several highway
interchanges, and just overtake other cars, and hook into the nav system, and then-.
[01:01:41] Joe Rogan
And you're just meditating, om.
[01:01:44] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:01:44] Joe Rogan
While your car is just traveling.
[01:01:45] Elon Musk
It's kind of eerie. It's kind of eerie.
[01:01:48] Joe Rogan
What did you think when you saw that video of that dude fallen asleep behind the wheel? I'm sure you've seen it, the one in San
Francisco. It's like right outside of San Jose. It's out cold, like this. And the cars an inch bumper-to-bumper in traffic moving along.
[01:02:01] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:02:01] Joe Rogan
You've seen it, right?
[01:02:03] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah. We just changed the software. Changedthe software. That's, I think, an old video. We changed software. Ifyou don't
touch the wheel, it will gradually slow down, and put the emergency lights on, and wake you up.
[01:02:15] Joe Rogan
Oh, that's hilarious.
[01:02:16] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:02:17] Joe Rogan
That's hilarious.
[01:02:18] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:02:19] Joe Rogan
Can you choose what voice wakes you up?
[01:02:21] Elon Musk
Well, it's sort of more of a -- It sort of honks.
[01:02:24] Joe Rogan
It honks.
[01:02:25] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:02:25] Joe Rogan
There should be like, "Wake up, fuckface. You're endangering your fellow humans."
[01:02:29] Elon Musk
We could gently wake you up with a sultry voice.
[01:02:32] Joe Rogan
That would be good like something with a southern accent. "Hey, wake up."
[01:02:36] Elon Musk
Wake up, sunshine.
[01:02:37] Joe Rogan
Hey, sweetie.
[01:02:38] Elon Musk
Exactly.
[01:02:39] Joe Rogan
Why don't you wake up?
[01:02:39] Elon Musk
You could pick your-
[01:02:42] Joe Rogan
Right, like-
[01:02:43] Elon Musk
Like whatever you want. Yes.
[01:02:44] Joe Rogan
Yeah, I choose the Australian girl for Siri.
[01:02:45] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:02:46] Joe Rogan
I like her voice.
[01:02:47] Elon Musk
Do you want it seductive?
[01:02:47] Joe Rogan
It's my favorite. I like Australian.
[01:02:49] Elon Musk
What flavor? Do what you want it to be angry. It could be anything.
[01:02:52] Joe Rogan
You want those Australian prison lady genes. Now, when you program something like that in, is this in response to a concern, or is it
your own?
[01:03:01] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:03:01] Joe Rogan
Do look at it and go, "Hey, they shouldn't just be able to fallasleep. Let's wake them up."
[01:03:08] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah. It's like -- Youknow, we're like -- Yeah, people are falling asleep. We've got to do something about that.
[01:03:16] Joe Rogan
Right. But when you first released it, you didn't consider it, right? You're just like, "Well, no one's going to just sleep."
[01:03:22] Elon Musk
People fall asleep in their cars all the time.
[01:03:24] Joe Rogan
All the time.
[01:03:25] Elon Musk
They crash.
[01:03:25] Joe Rogan
Yeah, it's horrible.
[01:03:26] Elon Musk
At least, our car doesn't crash.That's better.
[01:03:28] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:03:28] Elon Musk
It's better not to crash.
[01:03:30] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:03:30] Elon Musk
Imagine if that guy had fallen asleep in a gasoline car, they do all the time.
[01:03:34] Joe Rogan
For sure, yeah.
[01:03:35] Elon Musk
They would crash into somebody.
[01:03:36] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:03:37] Elon Musk
And, in fact, the thing that really, you know, got me to -- It's like,"Man, we better get a autopilot going and get it out." A guy was in an
early Tesla driving down the highway, and he fell asleep, and he ran over a cyclist, and killed him. I was like, "Man, ifwe had
autopilot, he might have fallen asleep, but, at least, he wouldn't run over that cyclist."
[01:04:04] Joe Rogan
So, how did you implement it? Like did you just use cameras and-
[01:04:08] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:04:09] Joe Rogan
... programmed with the system, so that if it sees images, it slows down? And how much time do you get? And like-
[01:04:17] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:04:17] Joe Rogan
Is the person who's in control of it allow the program to how fast it goes?
[01:04:22] Elon Musk
Yes. Yeah, you can program it to be more or less, like more conservative or like more aggressive driver. And you can say what
speed you want it to -- What speed is okay.
[01:04:35] Joe Rogan
I know you have ludicrous mode. Do you have douchebag mode?
[01:04:41] Elon Musk
Well, in-
[01:04:41] Joe Rogan
It just cuts people off.
[01:04:43] Elon Musk
Well, for lane changes, it's tricky because if you're in like LA, like unless you're pretty aggressive, right, it's hard to change lanes
sometimes.
[01:04:52] Joe Rogan
You can't. It's hard to be Satnam. It's hard to be Namaste here in LA.
[01:04:57] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:04:57] Joe Rogan
If you want to hit that Santa Monica Boulevard off in-
[01:05:01] Elon Musk
I mean, you've got to be a little pushy.
[01:05:02] Joe Rogan
You've got to be a little pushy, yeah.
[01:05:04] Elon Musk
On the freeway.
[01:05:04] Joe Rogan
Especially if you were angry.
[01:05:06] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:05:06] Joe Rogan
If you're a little angry, they don'twant you, and they speed up.
[01:05:08] Elon Musk
Sometimes, yeah, I think, people like overall are pretty nice on the highway, even in LA, but sometimes they're not.
[01:05:14] Joe Rogan
Do you think the Neuralink will help that quick?
[01:05:16] Elon Musk
Probably.
[01:05:17] Joe Rogan
Everybody will be locked in together, this hive mind.
[01:05:20] Elon Musk
Tunnels will help it. We wouldn't have traffic.
[01:05:22] Joe Rogan
That will help a lot.
[01:05:24] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:05:24] Joe Rogan
How many of those can you put in there?
[01:05:27] Elon Musk
Nice thing about tunnels-
[01:05:27] Joe Rogan
Are you thinking about for everybody?
[01:05:28] Elon Musk
Nice thing about tunnels is you can go 3D.
[01:05:30] Joe Rogan
Oh right.
[01:05:31] Elon Musk
So, you can go many levels.
[01:05:32] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:05:33] Elon Musk
So-
[01:05:33] Joe Rogan
Until you hit.
[01:05:34] Elon Musk
Yeah, but you go -- You can have 100 levels of with bombs.
[01:05:38] Joe Rogan
Jesus Christ. I don't want to be on99. That would be a negative 99 floors.
[01:05:46] Elon Musk
This is one of the fundamental things people don't appreciate about tunnels is that it's not like roads. The fundamental issue with
roads is that you have a 2D transport system and a 3D living and workspace environment. So, you've got all these tallbuildings or
concentrated work environments. And then, you want to go into those like 2D transport system with-
[01:06:09] Joe Rogan
Hugely inefficient.
[01:06:09] Elon Musk
... pretty low density because cars are spaced out pretty far. And so, that, obviously, is not going to work. You're going to have traffic
guaranteed. But if you can go 3D on your transport system, then you can solve all traffic. And you can either go 3D up with a flying
car, or you can go 3D down with tunnels. You can have as many tunnel levels as you want, and you can arbitrarily relieve any
amount of traffic. You can go further down with tunnels than you can go up with buildings. You're 10,000 feet down if you want. I
wouldn't recommended it, but-.
[01:06:46] Joe Rogan
What was that movie with -- What's his face? Bradley -- Not Bradley Cooper, Christian? No. What the fuck is his name? Batman.
Who is Batman?
[01:06:56] Jaime
Christian Bale.
[01:06:57] Joe Rogan
Christian Bale, where they fought dragons. Him and Matthew McConaughey. He went down deep into the earth. How deep can you
go?
[01:07:04] Elon Musk
I don't think that was Batman.
[01:07:05] Joe Rogan
Yeah, it was. Yeah, it was.
[01:07:06] Elon Musk
Batman fought dragons? I don't-
[01:07:08] Joe Rogan
No, it wasn't Batman but it's Christian Bale.
[01:07:09] Jaime
The Rain of Fire.
[01:07:10] Joe Rogan
Rain of Fire.
[01:07:10] Elon Musk
Okay.
[01:07:10] Joe Rogan
Never saw that?
[01:07:12] Elon Musk
No.
[01:07:14] Joe Rogan
Terrible. Terrible but good. I would look at it some time.
[01:07:16] Elon Musk
I wouldn't recommend drilling super far down but the earth is a big-
[01:07:19] Joe Rogan
Yeah, but you can't drill deep. It gets hot, right?
[01:07:21] Elon Musk
... molten
[01:07:21] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:07:22] Elon Musk
The earth is a giant ball of lava with a thin crust on the top, which we think of as like the surface, this thin crust. And it's mostly just a
big bowl of lava. That's earth, but 10,000 feet is not a big deal.
[01:07:40] Joe Rogan
Have you given any consideration whatsoever to the flat earth movement?
[01:07:46] Elon Musk
That's a troll situation.
[01:07:48] Joe Rogan
Oh, it's not. No, it's not. You would like to think that-
[01:07:54] Elon Musk
Okay.
[01:07:54] Joe Rogan
... because you're super genius. But I, as a normal person, I know these people are way dumber than me. And they really, really
believe. They watch YouTube videos, which go on uninterrupted, and spew out a bunch of fucking fake facts very eloquently and
articulately. And they really believe. These people really believe.
[01:08:15] Elon Musk
I mean, if it works for them, sure. Fine.
[01:08:21] Joe Rogan
It's weird though, right, that in this age where, you know, there's ludicrous mode in your car, goes 1.9 seconds, 060.
[01:08:28] Elon Musk
That's 2.2.
[01:08:29] Joe Rogan
2.2. Which one's 1.9? The Coaster.
[01:08:32] Elon Musk
The Next Generation Roadster.
[01:08:35] Joe Rogan
Okay.
[01:08:36] Elon Musk
Standard edition.
[01:08:36] Joe Rogan
Yeah, I'm on top of this shit.
[01:08:39] Elon Musk
That's just without-
[01:08:39] Joe Rogan
Standard edition.
[01:08:41] Elon Musk
Yeah. So, it's not the performance package.
[01:08:43] Joe Rogan
What performance package?
[01:08:45] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:08:45] Joe Rogan
What the fuck do you need?
[01:08:47] Elon Musk
We put a rocket thruster in it.
[01:08:49] Joe Rogan
For real?
[01:08:50] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:08:50] Joe Rogan
What are they going to burn?
[01:08:52] Elon Musk
Nothing. Ultrahigh pressure compressed air.
[01:08:56] Joe Rogan
Whoa. Just air?
[01:08:57] Elon Musk
Just called gas thrusters.
[01:08:59] Joe Rogan
Then, do you have the air tanks or the-
[01:09:00] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:09:00] Joe Rogan
Sucking air, okay.
[01:09:02] Elon Musk
Yeah. It has an electric pump.
[01:09:03] Joe Rogan
Whoa.
[01:09:04] Elon Musk
Pump it up like 10,000 PSI.
[01:09:06] Joe Rogan
And how fast are we talking? Zero to 60.
[01:09:08] Elon Musk
How fast you want to go?
[01:09:10] Joe Rogan
I want to go-
[01:09:10] Elon Musk
We could make this thing fly.
[01:09:11] Joe Rogan
I want to go back in time.
[01:09:13] Elon Musk
I can make it fly.
[01:09:14] Joe Rogan
You make it fly?
[01:09:15] Elon Musk
Sure.
[01:09:15] Joe Rogan
Do you anticipate that as being -- I mean, you'retalking about the tunnels and then flying cars. Do you really think that's going to be
real?
[01:09:21] Elon Musk
Too noisy, and there's too much airflow. So, the final issue withflying cars, I mean, ifyou get like one of those like toy drones, think
of how loud those are and how much air they blow. Now, imagine if that's like a thousand times heavier. This is not going to make
your neighbors happy. Your neighbors are not going to be happy if you land a flying car in your backyard.
[01:09:45] Joe Rogan
It will be very helicopter-like.
[01:09:46] Elon Musk
Or on your roof. It's just really going to be like, "What the hell. That wasannoying."
[01:09:53] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:09:53] Elon Musk
You can't even -- Like, if you want a flying car, just put some wheels on a helicopter.
[01:09:58] Joe Rogan
Is there a way around that? Like what if they figure out some sort of magnetic technology, like all those Bob Lazar type characters
who were thinking that was a part of the UFO technology they were doing at Area 51? Remember, didn't they have some thoughts
about magnetics? Nope.
[01:10:15] Joe Rogan
No? Bullshit?
[01:10:17] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:10:17] Joe Rogan
Really?
[01:10:17] Elon Musk
Yeah. There's a fundamental momentum exchange with the air. So, you must accelerate. There's like this -- There's a sudden -- You
have a mass, and you have gravitational acceleration. And mass times -- Your mass times gravity must equal the mass of airflow
times acceleration of that airflow to have a neutral force. MG=MA
[01:10:42] Joe Rogan
So, it's impossible to go around-
[01:10:43] Elon Musk
And then you won't move.
[01:10:45] Joe Rogan
Okay.
[01:10:45] Elon Musk
If MG is greater than MA, you will go down. And if MA is greater than MG, you will go up. That's how it works.
[01:10:53] Joe Rogan
There's just no way around that?
[01:10:54] Elon Musk
There is definitely no way around it.
[01:10:56] Joe Rogan
There's no way to create some sort of a magnetic something or another that allows you to float?
[01:11:03] Elon Musk
Technically, yes. You could have a strong enough magnet, but that magnet would be so strong that you would create a lot of trouble.
[01:11:17] Joe Rogan
It would just suck cars up into your car? Just pick up axles and do that?
[01:11:20] Elon Musk
I mean, it should have to repel off of either material on the ground or in a really nutty situation off of Earth's gravitational field, and
somehow make that incredibly light, but that magnet would cause so much destruction. You'd be better off with a helicopter.
[01:11:44] Joe Rogan
So, if there was some sort of magnet road, like you have two magnets, and they repel each other, if you had some sort of a magnet
road that was below you, and you could travel on that magnet road, that would work?
[01:11:57] Elon Musk
Yes. Yes, you can have a magnet road.
[01:12:03] Joe Rogan
A magnet road. Is that too ridiculous?
[01:12:05] Elon Musk
No, it will work. So, you could do that.
[01:12:07] Joe Rogan
That's ridiculous too, right?
[01:12:08] Elon Musk
I would not recommend it.
[01:12:09] Joe Rogan
There's a lot of things you don't recommend.
[01:12:11] Elon Musk
I would super not recommend that. Not good. Not wise, I think.
[01:12:15] Joe Rogan
No?
[01:12:16] Elon Musk
No.
[01:12:16] Joe Rogan
Magnet roads?
[01:12:16] Elon Musk
No. No. No, definitely not. Definitely not. Yeah, it would cause a lot of trouble.
[01:12:24] Joe Rogan
So, you put some time and consideration into this other than -- You know, instead like my foolishly rendered thoughts. So, you think
that tunnels are the way to do it?
[01:12:34] Elon Musk
Oh, it will work, for sure.
[01:12:35] Joe Rogan
That'll work?
[01:12:36] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:12:36] Joe Rogan
And these tunnels that you're building right now, these are basically just like test versions of this ultimate idea that you have?
[01:12:46] Elon Musk
You know, it's just a hole in the ground.
[01:12:49] Joe Rogan
Right. We played videos of it where your ideas-
[01:12:51] Elon Musk
It's just a hole in the ground.
[01:12:51] Joe Rogan
... that you drop that hole in the ground. There's a sled on it, and the sled goes very fast, like 100 miles an hour plus.
[01:12:58] Elon Musk
Yeah, it can go real fast. You can go as fast as youwant. And then, if you want to go long distances, you can just draw the air out of
the tunnel, make sure it's real straight.
[01:13:08] Joe Rogan
Draw the air out of the tunnel?
[01:13:09] Elon Musk
Yeah, it's sort of vacuum tunnel because the -- And then, depending on how fast you want to go, you're going to take thesewheels,
or you could use air bearings depending upon the ambient pressure in the tunnel, or you could mag lev it if you want to go super fast.
[01:13:27] Joe Rogan
So, magnet road?
[01:13:29] Elon Musk
Yes, underground magnet roads.
[01:13:31] Joe Rogan
Underground magnet roads?
[01:13:32] Elon Musk
Yeah. Otherwise, you're going to really create a lot of trouble because of those metal things.
[01:13:36] Joe Rogan
Oh. So, magnet road is the way to go, just underground.
[01:13:39] Elon Musk
If you want to go really fast underground, you would be mag lev in a vacuum tunnel.
[01:13:46] Joe Rogan
Mag in a vacuum tunnel.
[01:13:48] Elon Musk
Magnetic levitation in a vacuum tunnel launchers. Fun?
[01:13:51] Joe Rogan
With rocket launchers?
[01:13:52] Elon Musk
No, I would not recommend putting any-
[01:13:55] Joe Rogan
Come on.
[01:13:55] Elon Musk
... exhaust gas in the tunnel.
[01:13:57] Joe Rogan
Oh, okay. I see what you're saying because then the air will be gone.
[01:13:59] Elon Musk
Because, then, the air will pump it out.
[01:13:59] Joe Rogan
Right. You have to pump it out, and you probably have limited amount of air in the first place. Like how much can you breathe? Do
you have to pump oxygen into these cubicles, these tubes?
[01:14:08] Elon Musk
No. We have a pressurized pod. It'd be like a little tiny underground spaceship basically.
[01:14:12] Joe Rogan
Like an airplane because you have air on airplanes. It's not getting new air in.
[01:14:16] Elon Musk
It is.
[01:14:17] Joe Rogan
It is?
[01:14:17] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:14:18] Joe Rogan
You have like a little hole?
[01:14:20] Elon Musk
Yeah, they have a pump.
[01:14:21] Joe Rogan
Really?
[01:14:21] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:14:21] Joe Rogan
So, it gets it from the outside?
[01:14:22] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:14:23] Joe Rogan
Wow, I didn't know that.
[01:14:23] Elon Musk
It's like the air's --Airplanes have it easy because, essentially, you can -- they're pretty leaky, but-
[01:14:31] Joe Rogan
Jesus.
[01:14:32] Elon Musk
Yeah, but as long as the air pump is working at a distance. I mean, theyhave backup pumps, sort of like,you know, three pumps, or
four pumps, or something. And then, there's like -- It exhausts through the outflow valve and through whatever seals are not sealing
quite right. Usually, the door doesn't seal quite right on the plane. So, there's a bit of leakage around the door. But the pumps exceed
the outflow rate. And then, that sets the pressure in the cabin.
[01:15:07] Joe Rogan
Now, have you ever looked at planes and gone, "I can fix this."
[01:15:11] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:15:11] Joe Rogan
"I just don't have the time."
[01:15:13] Elon Musk
I have a design for a plane.
[01:15:16] Joe Rogan
You do?
[01:15:17] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:15:17] Joe Rogan
A better design?
[01:15:19] Elon Musk
I mean, probably. I think it is, yes.
[01:15:21] Joe Rogan
Who have you talked to about this?
[01:15:25] Elon Musk
I've talked to friends.
[01:15:27] Joe Rogan
Friends?
[01:15:29] Elon Musk
Friends and-
[01:15:29] Joe Rogan
I'm your friend.
[01:15:30] Elon Musk
Girlfriends and-
[01:15:30] Joe Rogan
You can tell me. What you got? What's going on?
[01:15:36] Elon Musk
Well, I mean, the exciting thing to do would be some sort of electric vertical takeoff and landing, supersonic jet of some kind.
[01:15:43] Joe Rogan
Vertical takeoff and landing meaning no need for a runway. Just shoot up straight in the air.
[01:15:50] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:15:50] Joe Rogan
How would you do that? I mean, theydo that in some military aircraft, correct?
[01:15:56] Elon Musk
Yes. The trick is that you have to transition to level flight. And then, the thing that you would use for vertical takeoff and landing is not
suitable for high-speed flight.
[01:16:12] Joe Rogan
So, you have two different systems? Vertical takeoff is one system?
[01:16:15] Elon Musk
I've thought about this quite a lot. I've thought about this quite a lot.
[01:16:19] Joe Rogan
Okay.
[01:16:19] Elon Musk
I guess, thinking about an electric plane is that you want to go as high as possible, but you need a certain energy density in the
battery pack because you have to overcome gravitational potential energy. Once you've overcome gravitational potential energy, and
you're out at a high altitude, the energy use in cruise is very low. And then, you can recapture a large part of the gravitational
potential energy on the way down. So, you really don't need any kind of reserve fuel, if you will, because you have the energy of
height, gravitational potential energy. This is a lot of energy.
[01:16:56] Elon Musk
So, once you can get high, like the way to think about a plane is it's a force balance. So, the force balance -- So, a plane that is not
accelerating is a neutral force balance. You have the force of gravity, you have the lift force, you have the wings. Then, you've got
the force of the whatever thrusting device, so the propeller, or turbine, or whatever it is. And you've got the resistance force of the air.
[01:17:27] Elon Musk
Now, the higher you go, the lower the air resistance is. Air density drops exponentially, but drag increases with the square, and
exponential beats the square. The higher you go, the faster you will go for the same amount of energy. And at a certain altitude, you
can go supersonic with less energy per mile, quite a lot less energy per mile than an aircraft at 35,000 feet because it's just a force
balance.
[01:18:00] Joe Rogan
I'm too stupid for this conversation.
[01:18:04] Elon Musk
It makes sense though.
[01:18:05] Joe Rogan
No, I'm sure it does. Now, when you think about this new idea of of design, when you have this idea about improving planes, are you
going to bring this to somebody and check this one out?
[01:18:21] Elon Musk
Well, I have a lot on my plate.
[01:18:22] Joe Rogan
Right. That's what I'm saying. I don't know how you do what you do now, but if you keep coming up with these. But it's got to be hard
to pawn this off on someone else either, like, "Hey, go do a good job with this vertical takeoff and landing system that I want to
implement to regular planes.".
[01:18:41] Elon Musk
The airplane, electric airplane isn't necessarily right now. Electric cars are important. We need-
[01:18:48] Joe Rogan
We need some sort of-
[01:18:48] Elon Musk
Solar energy is important. Stationary storage of energy is important. These things are much more important than creating electric
supersonic futile. Also, the plane's naturally -- You really want that gravitational energy density for an aircraft, and this improving over
time. So, you know, it's important that we accelerate the transition to sustainable energy. That's why electric cars, it matters whether
electric cars happen sooner or later. You know, we're really playing a crazy game here with the atmosphere or the oceans.
[01:19:23] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:19:23] Elon Musk
We're taking vast amounts of carbon from deep underground and putting this in the atmosphere. It's just crazy. We should not do
this. It's very dangerous. So, we should accelerate the transition to sustainable energy. I mean, the bizarre thing is that, obviously,
we're going to run out of oil in the long term. You know, we're going to -- There's only so much oil we can mine and burn. It's totally
logical. We must have a sustainable energy transport and energy infrastructure in the long term.
[01:20:04] Elon Musk
So, we know that's the endpoint. We know that. So, why run this crazy experiment where we take trillions of tons of carbon from
underground and put it in the atmosphere and oceans? This is an insane experiment. It's the dumbest experiment in human history.
Why are we doing this? It's crazy.
[01:20:25] Joe Rogan
Do you think this is a product of momentum that we started off doing this when it was just a few engines, a few hundred million
gallons of fuel over the whole world, not that big of a deal? And then, slowly but surely over a century, it got out of control. And now,
it's not just our fuel, but it's also, I mean, fossil fuels are involved in so many different electronics, so many different items that people
buy. It's just this constant desire for fossil fuels, constant need for oil-
[01:21:00] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:21:00] Joe Rogan
Without consideration of the sustainability.
[01:21:03] Elon Musk
You know, the things like oil, oil, coal, gas, it's easy money.
[01:21:07] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:21:07] Elon Musk
It's easy money. So-
[01:21:09] Joe Rogan
Have you heard about clean coal? The president's been tweeting about it. It's got to be real. CLEAN COAL, all caps. Did you see?
He used all caps. Clean coal.
[01:21:20] Elon Musk
Well, you know, it's very difficult to put that CO2 back in the ground. It doesn't like being in solid form.
[01:21:29] Joe Rogan
Have you thought about something like that?
[01:21:29] Elon Musk
It takes a lot of energy.
[01:21:29] Joe Rogan
Like some sort of a filter, giant building-sized filter sucks carbon out in the atmosphere? Is that possible?
[01:21:37] Elon Musk
No, no, it doesn't. It's not possible.
[01:21:39] Joe Rogan
No?
[01:21:39] Elon Musk
No.
[01:21:40] Joe Rogan
No?
[01:21:41] Elon Musk
Nope, definitely not.
[01:21:41] Joe Rogan
So, we're fucked?
[01:21:43] Elon Musk
No, we're not fucked. I mean, this is quite a complex question.
[01:21:50] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:21:53] Elon Musk
You know, we're really just -- When we -- Themore carbon we take out of the ground and add to the atmosphere, and a lot of it gets
permeated into the oceans, the more dangerous it is. Like I don't think right -- Ithink we're okay right now. We can probably even
add some more but the momentum towards sustainable energy is too slow.
[01:22:16] Elon Musk
Like there's a vast base of industry, vast transportation system. Like there's Two and a half billion cars and trucks in the world. And
the new car and truck production, if it was a 100% electric, that's only about 100 million per year. So, it would take -- If you could
snap your fingers and instantly turn all cars and trucks electric, it would still take 25 years to change the transport base to electric. It
makes sense because how long does a car and truck last before it goes into the junkyard and gets crushed? About 20 to 25 years.
[01:23:00] Joe Rogan
Is there a way to accelerate that process, like some sort of subsidies or some encouragement from the government financially?
[01:23:08] Elon Musk
Well, the thing that is going on right now is that there is an inherent subsidy in any oil-burning device. Any power plant or car is
fundamentally consuming the carbon capacity of the oceans and atmosphere, or just the atmosphere for short. So, like, you can say,
okay, there's a certain probability of something bad happening past a certain carbon concentration in the atmosphere.
[01:23:41] Elon Musk
And so, there's some uncertain number where if we put too much carbon into the atmosphere, things overheat, oceans warm up, ice
caps melt, ocean real estate becomes a lot less valuable, you know, if something's underwater, but it'snot clear what that number is.
But, definitely, scientists, it's really quite -- The scientific consensus is overwhelming. Overwhelming.
[01:24:13] Elon Musk
I mean, I don't know any serious scientist, actually zero, literally zero who don't think, you know, that we have quite a serious climate
risk that we're facing. And so, that's fundamentally a subsidy occurring with every fossil fuel burning thing, power plants, aircraft, car
frankly even rockets. I mean, rockets use up -- you know, they burn. They burn fuel. But there's just -- you know, with rockets, there's
just no other way to get to orbit unfortunately. So, it's the only way.
[01:24:54] Elon Musk
But with cars, there's definitely a better way with electric cars. And to generate the energy, do so with photovoltaics because we've
got a giant nuclear reactor in the sky called the sun. It's great. It sort of shows up every day, very reliable. So, if you can generate
energy from solar panels, store up with batteries, you can have energy 24 hours a day.
[01:25:21] Elon Musk
And then, you know, you can send to the polls or in the air tothe north with, you know, high voltage lines. Most of the northern parts
of the world tend to have a lot of hydropower as well. But, anyway, all fossil fuel-powered things have an inherent subsidy, which is
their consumption of the carbon capacity of the atmosphere and oceans.
[01:25:48] Elon Musk
So, people tend to think like why should electric vehicles have a subsidy, but they're not taking into account that all fossil fuel-burning
vehicles fundamentally are subsidized by the cost, the environmental cost to earth, but nobody's paying for it. We are going to pay for
it, obviously. In the future, we'll pay for it. It's just not paid for now.
[01:26:16] Joe Rogan
And what is the bottleneck in regards to electric cars, and trucks, and things like that? Is it battery capacity?
[01:26:25] Elon Musk
Yeah. You got to scale up production. You got to make the car compelling, make it better than gasoline or diesel cars.
[01:26:34] Joe Rogan
Make it more efficient in terms of, like, the distance it can travel? You're going to be fueling-
[01:26:37] Elon Musk
Yeah, you're going to be able to go far enough, recharge fast.
[01:26:40] Joe Rogan
And your Roadster, you're anticipating 600 miles. Is that correct?
[01:26:46] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah.
[01:26:47] Joe Rogan
What is it? What is that?
[01:26:48] Elon Musk
Yeah, 600 miles.
[01:26:49] Joe Rogan
Is that right now? Like have you driven one 600 miles now?
[01:26:51] Elon Musk
No. We could totally make one right now that would do 600 miles, but the thing is too expensive. So, like the car's got to-
[01:26:58] Joe Rogan
How much more so?
[01:27:00] Elon Musk
Well, you know, just have a chartered kilowatt hour battery pack, and you can go 600 miles as long as you're-
[01:27:05] Joe Rogan
Right, versus what do you have now?
[01:27:08] Elon Musk
330-mile range. That's plenty for most people.
[01:27:11] Joe Rogan
330-mile range. And what is that mean in terms of kilowatts?
[01:27:15] Elon Musk
Well, that would be for Model S, 100-kilowatt hour pack will do about 330 miles. Maybe 335 because some people have hyper mild it
to 500 miles per mile.
[01:27:27] Joe Rogan
Hyper mild it. What does that mean?
[01:27:27] Elon Musk
Yeah, just like go on-
[01:27:29] Joe Rogan
45 miles an hour or something?
[01:27:31] Elon Musk
Yeah, like 30 miles an hour or so. It's like on level ground with -- You pumpthe tires up really well, and go on a smooth surface, and
you can go for a long time. But, you know, like definitely comfortably do 300 miles.
[01:27:44] Joe Rogan
Is there any-
[01:27:44] Elon Musk
This is fine for most people. Usually, 200 or 250 miles is fine. 300 miles is -- Youdon't even think about it really.
[01:27:53] Joe Rogan
Is there any possibility that you could use solar power, solar-powered one day, especially in Los Angeles? I mean, as you said about
that giant nuclear reactor, a million times bigger than Earth just floating in the sky. Is it possible that one day, you'll be able to just
power all these cars just on solar power? I mean, we don't ever have cloudy days if we do just three of them.
[01:28:15] Elon Musk
Well, the surface area of a car is without making the car look really blocky or having some-
[01:28:22] Joe Rogan
Like a G wagon.
[01:28:24] Elon Musk
Yeah, and just like if it looked a lot of surface area, or like maybe like solar panels fold out, or something-
[01:28:29] Joe Rogan
Like your E class. That's what it needed.
[01:28:33] Elon Musk
That E type?
[01:28:33] Joe Rogan
Yeah, the Jaguar E type with a giant long hood, that could be a giant solar panel.
[01:28:40] Elon Musk
Well, at the beginning of Tesla, I did want to have this like unfolding solar panel thing. They'd press a button, and it would just like
unfold these solar panels, and like charge/recharge your car in the parking lot. Yeah, we could do that, but I think it's probably better
to just put that on your roof.
[01:28:56] Joe Rogan
Right, yeah.
[01:28:56] Elon Musk
And then, it's going to -- It should be facing the sun all the time because like-
[01:29:00] Joe Rogan
What car have that on the roof?
[01:29:00] Elon Musk
Otherwise, your car could be in the shade. You know, it could be in theshade, it could be in a garage, or something likethat.
[01:29:03] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:29:04] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:29:04] Joe Rogan
Didn't the Fisker have that on the roof? The Fisker Karma New Generation for -- I believe, it was only for the radio. Is that correct?
[01:29:14] Elon Musk
Yeah, I mean, but I think it could like recharge like two miles a day or something.
[01:29:17] Joe Rogan
Did you laugh when they started blowing up when they get hit with water? Do you remember what happened?
[01:29:22] Elon Musk
They got what?
[01:29:24] Joe Rogan
Yeah, they had a dealership or-
[01:29:27] Elon Musk
Oh yeah.
[01:29:27] Joe Rogan
The Fisker Karmas were parked-
[01:29:29] Elon Musk
Is that like that with a flood in Jersey?
[01:29:31] Joe Rogan
Yes, yes.
[01:29:32] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:29:32] Joe Rogan
When the hurricane came in, they got overwhelmed with water, and they all started exploding. There's a fucking great video of it. Did
you watch the video?
[01:29:39] Elon Musk
I didn't watch the video, but I did see -- It's like some pictureof the aftermath.
[01:29:44] Joe Rogan
If I was you, I'd be naked, lubedup, watch that video, laugh my ass off. They all blow up. They got wet, and they blew up. That's not
good.
[01:29:52] Elon Musk
Yeah, we made our battery waterproof, so that doesn't happen. Actually-
[01:29:54] Joe Rogan
Smart move.
[01:29:56] Elon Musk
Yeah, there was a guy in Kazakhstan that -- I think it wasKazakhstan that he just boated through a tunnel, an underwater tunnel, like
a flooded tunnel, and just turned the wheels to steer, and pressed the accelerator, and it just floated through the tunnel.
[01:30:14] Joe Rogan
Wow.
[01:30:14] Elon Musk
And he steered around the other cars. I mean, like-
[01:30:17] Joe Rogan
That's amazing.
[01:30:17] Elon Musk
It's on the internet.
[01:30:19] Joe Rogan
What happens if your car gets a little sideways, like if you're driving in snow? Like what if you're driving, if you're autopilot is on, and
you're in like Denver, and it snows out, and your car gets a little sideways, does it correct itself? Does that-
[01:30:34] Elon Musk
Oh yeah. It's got great traction control.
[01:30:36] Joe Rogan
But does it know how to like correct? You know how, like, when your Ascend-
[01:30:39] Elon Musk
Oh yeah, sure.
[01:30:39] Joe Rogan
... kicks, you know how to counter steer?
[01:30:42] Elon Musk
Oh, yeah. No, it's really good.
[01:30:43] Joe Rogan
It knows how to do it?
[01:30:44] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:30:45] Joe Rogan
Whoa.
[01:30:45] Elon Musk
It's pretty crazy.
[01:30:46] Joe Rogan
That's pretty crazy.
[01:30:47] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:30:48] Joe Rogan
So, like if you're going sideways, it knows how to correct itself?
[01:30:53] Elon Musk
It generally won't go sideways.
[01:30:55] Joe Rogan
It won't?
[01:30:55] Elon Musk
No.
[01:30:56] Joe Rogan
Why not?
[01:30:56] Elon Musk
It will correct itself before it goes sideways.
[01:30:58] Joe Rogan
Even in black eyes?
[01:31:01] Elon Musk
Yeah. There's videos where you could see the car, the traction-
[01:31:06] Joe Rogan
Not alone.
[01:31:06] Elon Musk
Traction control system is very good. It makes you feel like Superman. It's great. You like feel like you can -- Like it's -- Itwill make
you feel like this incredible driver.
[01:31:19] Joe Rogan
I believe it.
[01:31:20] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:31:20] Joe Rogan
Now, how do you program that?
[01:31:21] Elon Musk
We do have testing on like an ice lake in Sweden.
[01:31:25] Joe Rogan
Oh really?
[01:31:25] Elon Musk
Yeah. And like Norway, and Canada, and a few other places.
[01:31:28] Joe Rogan
Porsche does a lot of that too? They do-
[01:31:30] Elon Musk
They did it as well?
[01:31:31] Joe Rogan
They do a lot of their -- They do some of their driver training school on these frozen surfaces. So, you're just -- The car is going
sideways whether you like it or not. And you have to learn how to slide into corners, and how do we test.
[01:31:45] Elon Musk
Yeah. Electric cars have really great traction control because the reaction time is so fast.
[01:31:50] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:31:50] Elon Musk
Sort of like where you're gassing a car, you've got a lot of latency. It takes a while for the engine to react, but for electric motors,
incredibly precise. That's why you're like -- You imaginelike if you had like a printer or something, you wouldn't have a gasoline
engine printer. That would be pretty weird or like a surgical device. It's going to be an electric motor on the surgical device on the
printer. Gasoline engine's going to be just chugging away. It's not going to have the reaction time.
[01:32:28] Elon Musk
But to an electric motor, it's operating at the most second level. So, it can turn on and off traction within, like, inches of getting on the
onus. Like, let's say, you're driving on a patch of ice, it will turn traction off, and then turn it on a couple inches right after the ice, like a
little patch of ice because in the frame of the electric motor, you're moving incredibly slowly. You're like a -- You're a snail. You're just
moving so slowly because it can see at a thousand frames a second. And so, it's like, say, one Mississippi. It just thought about it
things a thousand times.
[01:33:12] Joe Rogan
So, it's to realize that your wheels are not getting traction. It understands there's some slippery surface that you're driving on.
[01:33:18] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:33:18] Joe Rogan
And it makes adjustments in real time.
[01:33:21] Elon Musk
Yes, in milliseconds.
[01:33:23] Joe Rogan
That would be so much safer than a regular car.
[01:33:26] Elon Musk
Yes, it is.
[01:33:27] Joe Rogan
Just that alone, for loved ones, you'd want them to be driving your car.
[01:33:32] Elon Musk
Yes. The-
[01:33:33] Joe Rogan
Or on board. Fuck motors. Dude, fuck regularmotors.
[01:33:37] Elon Musk
That S, X, and 3 have the lowest probability of injury of any cars ever tested by the US government.
[01:33:46] Joe Rogan
Whoa.
[01:33:47] Elon Musk
So, this -- Yeah, but it's pretty fun. It's pretty crazy. Like we -- Youknow, people still sue us like they'll have like some accident at 60
miles an hour where they'd like twisted an ankle, and they slipped. Like they will be dead in another car, they still sue us.
[01:34:04] Joe Rogan
But that's to be expected, isn't it?
[01:34:05] Elon Musk
It is to be expected.
[01:34:07] Joe Rogan
Do you take that into account with like the same sort of fatalistic, you know, undertones to sort of just go, "You've got to just let it go.
This is what people do."
[01:34:20] Elon Musk
I tell you I've got-
[01:34:20] Joe Rogan
This is what it is.
[01:34:21] Elon Musk
... Quite a lot of respect for the justice system. Judges are very smart. And they see -- they've -- as like I haven't. So far, I've found
judges to be very good at justice because like what -- and juries are good too. Like, they're actually quite good. You know, people --
You know, you read about like occasional errors in the justice system. Let me tell you, most the time, they're very good.
[01:34:47] Elon Musk
And like the other guy mentioned who fell asleep in the car, and he rode over a cyclist. And that was what encouraged me to get
autopilot out as soon as possible. That guy sued us.
[01:35:02] Joe Rogan
He sued you for falling asleep?
[01:35:05] Elon Musk
Yes. I'm not kidding. He blamed it on the new car smell.
[01:35:10] Joe Rogan
What?
[01:35:11] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:35:11] Joe Rogan
He blamed him falling asleep on your new car smell. Does someone that's a lawyer-
[01:35:17] Elon Musk
This is a real thing that happened.
[01:35:18] Joe Rogan
Someone that's a lawyer that thought that through in front of his laptop before he wrote that up.
[01:35:23] Elon Musk
Yes, he got a lawyer, and he sued us, and the judge was like, "This is crazy. Stop bothering me. No."
[01:35:31] Joe Rogan
Thank God.
[01:35:32] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:35:32] Joe Rogan
Thank God. Thank God there's a judge outthere with a brain.
[01:35:35] Elon Musk
I tell you, judges are very good.
[01:35:38] Joe Rogan
Some of them.
[01:35:38] Elon Musk
I have a lot of-
[01:35:38] Joe Rogan
What about that judge that sent all these boys up the river in Pennsylvania who was selling those kids out? You know aboutthat
story?
[01:35:45] Elon Musk
Nope.
[01:35:46] Joe Rogan
Judge was selling young boys to prisons. He was like literally-
[01:35:51] Elon Musk
What?
[01:35:51] Joe Rogan
Yeah, literally, under bribes for -- He was-
[01:35:54] Elon Musk
Was this an elected judge or-
[01:35:56] Joe Rogan
He was-
[01:35:56] Elon Musk
Because sometimes you have a judge that's like actually a politician.
[01:36:00] Joe Rogan
No, he was a elected judge. This is a very famous story.
[01:36:03] Elon Musk
Okay.
[01:36:04] Joe Rogan
He's in jail right now, I think, for the rest of his life. And he put away -- Hewould take like a young boy who would do something like
steal something from a store, and he would put them in detention for, you know, five years. Something ridiculous egregious. And
they investigated his history. And they found out that he was literally being paid off. Was it by private prisons? Is that what the the
deal was? There was some sort of --But, anyway, this judge is-
[01:36:30] Jaime
Actually, two judges.
[01:36:31] Joe Rogan
Two judges?
[01:36:32] Jaime
Two judges. Kids for cash scandals, let's call them.
[01:36:33] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:36:33] Jaime
2008, yeah. Common pleas judges. So, I think they are elected.
[01:36:39] Joe Rogan
And who was paying them? Someone -- It proven to the point where they're in jail now that someone was paying them to put more
asses in the seats in these private prisons.
[01:36:55] Jaime
It's like a million-dollar payment to put them in a youth center builder.
[01:36:57] Joe Rogan
A million-dollar payment?
[01:36:59] Jaime
Yeah.
[01:36:59] Elon Musk
I do think these private prisons thing is-
[01:37:01] Joe Rogan
Someone business.
[01:37:02] Elon Musk
... creating a bad incentive.
[01:37:03] Joe Rogan
It's dark.
[01:37:03] Elon Musk
Right, yes. But, I mean, that judge is in prison.
[01:37:09] Joe Rogan
Thank God.
[01:37:09] Elon Musk
Yes, but for people who think perhaps the justice system consists entirely of judges like that, I want to assure you-
[01:37:17] Joe Rogan
No.
[01:37:17] Elon Musk
... this is not the case. The vast majority of judges are very good.
[01:37:20] Joe Rogan
I agree.
[01:37:21] Elon Musk
And they care about justice, and they could have made a lot more money if they wanted to be a trial lawyer. And instead, they cared
about justice, and they made less money because they care about justice. And that's why they're judges.
[01:37:31] Joe Rogan
I feel that same way about police officers.
[01:37:33] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:37:33] Joe Rogan
I feel like there's so many interactions with so many different people with police officers that the very few that stand out that are
horrific, we tend to look at that like, "This is evidence that police are all corrupt." And I think that's crazy.
[01:37:47] Elon Musk
No. Most police are very honest.
[01:37:49] Joe Rogan
Yes.
[01:37:51] Elon Musk
And like the military-
[01:37:54] Joe Rogan
Like they have an insanely-
[01:37:55] Elon Musk
... personnel that I know-
[01:37:56] Joe Rogan
Yes.
[01:37:56] Elon Musk
... are very honorable, ethical people.
[01:37:58] Joe Rogan
Yes.
[01:37:58] Elon Musk
And much more honorable and ethical than the average person. That's my impression.
[01:38:02] Joe Rogan
I agree. That's my impression as well.
[01:38:03] Elon Musk
And that's not to suggest that we be complacent and assume everyone is honest and ethical. And, obviously, if somebody is given a
trusted place in society, such as being a police officer or a judge, and they are corrupt, then we must be extra vigilant against such
situations-
[01:38:20] Joe Rogan
Yes.
[01:38:20] Elon Musk
... and take action. But we should not think that this is somehow broadly descriptive of people in that profession.
[01:38:26] Joe Rogan
I couldn't agree more. I think there's also an issue with one of the things that happens with police officers, prosecutors, and anyone
that's trying to convict someone or arrest someone is that it becomes a game. And in games, people want to win.
[01:38:41] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:38:41] Joe Rogan
And sometimes, people cheat.
[01:38:42] Elon Musk
Yes, yes. I mean, you know, if you're a prosecutor, you should not always want to win. There are times when you should like, "Okay. I
just should not want to win this case." And then, you know, like just pass on that case. Sometimes, people want to win too much.
That is true.
[01:39:00] Elon Musk
I think, also, it becomes tough. If you're like a district attorney, you know, you tend to sort of see a lot of criminals. And then, your
view of the world can get negatively.
[01:39:14] Joe Rogan
Yes.
[01:39:14] Elon Musk
You know, have a negative -- You know, you can have a negative view of the world because, you know, you're just interacting with a
lot of criminals. But, actually, most of society is not to consist of criminals.
[01:39:25] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:39:26] Elon Musk
And I, actually, had this conversation at dinner several years ago with, I guess, it's Tony.I was like, "Man, it must, sometimes, seem
pretty, pretty dark because, you know, man, there's some terrible human beings out there. And he was like, "Yup." And he was like
dealing with some case, which consisted of a couple of old ladies that would run people over somehow for insurance money. It was
rough. Like, "Wow, that's pretty rough." It's like hard to maintain faith in humanity if you're a district attorney, but, you know, it's only a
few percent of society that are actually bad.
[01:40:07] Elon Musk
And then if you go to the worst, say 0.1% of society are the worst, one in a thousand, one in a million, you know. Like how bad is the
millionth worst person in the United States? Pretty damn bad. Like damn evil.
[01:40:22] Joe Rogan
Yeah,
[01:40:22] Elon Musk
Like the millionth, well, one in a million of evil is so evil, people cannot even conceive of it. But there's 330 million people in the United
States. So, that's 330 people out there somewhere. But by the same token, there's also 330 people who are incredible angels and
unbelievably good human beings.
[01:40:49] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:40:49] Elon Musk
On the other side.
[01:40:50] Joe Rogan
But because of our fear of danger, we tend to -- our thoughts tend to gravitate towards the worst-case scenario.
[01:40:57] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:40:57] Joe Rogan
And we want to frame that. And that's one of the real problems with prejudice, whether it's prejudice towards different minorities, or
prejudice towards police officers, or anything, it's like we want to look at the worst-case scenario and say, "This is an example of what
this is all about.".
[01:41:13] Joe Rogan
And you see that even with people, how they frame genders. Some men frame women like that. They get ripped off by a few women,
and they said, "All women are evil." Some women get fucked over by a few men, "All men are shit." And this is very toxic.
[01:41:27] Elon Musk
It is.
[01:41:27] Joe Rogan
And it's also -- It's a very unbalanced way of viewing the world, and it's very emotionally-based, and it's based on your own
experience, your own anecdotal experience. And it can be very influential to the people around you, and it's just it's a dangerous way.
It's a dangerous thought process and pattern to promote.
[01:41:47] Elon Musk
It is. It is a very dangerous, but I really think, you know, people should give other people the benefit of the doubt and assume that they
are good until proven otherwise. And, I think,really, most people are actually pretty good people. Nobody's perfect.
[01:42:04] Joe Rogan
They have to be.
[01:42:05] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:42:05] Joe Rogan
If you think of vast numbers of us that are just interacting with each other constantly-
[01:42:10] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:42:10] Joe Rogan
... we have to be better than we think we are.
[01:42:12] Elon Musk
Yes. I mean, like-
[01:42:13] Joe Rogan
There's no other way.
[01:42:14] Elon Musk
I mean, here are these weapons but how many times, like, nobody's presumably try to murder you and you're-
[01:42:18] Joe Rogan
Nobody yet.
[01:42:18] Elon Musk
Yes, nobody. It's like the sword right there.
[01:42:20] Joe Rogan
Not the flamethrower, fake flamethrower here-
[01:42:22] Elon Musk
Exactly.
[01:42:22] Joe Rogan
It's not a flamethrower. Now, we've got a real problem, I'm going to put it on that side to him and leave it for the guests.
[01:42:27] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:42:28] Joe Rogan
I'm like, "Look, man, if I say something that fucked up, it's right there."
[01:42:31] Elon Musk
It will liven things up for sure. It's guaranteed to make any party better.
[01:42:36] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Well, that's -- I mean, that's the armed civilization theory, right. An armed community is safe and polite community.
[01:42:48] Elon Musk
You know, in Texas, it's kind of true. Yeah. I mean-
[01:42:53] Joe Rogan
People in Texas are super polite. Therefore, they've got a gun.
[01:42:55] Elon Musk
Yes. Don't make somebody angry.
[01:43:00] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:43:00] Elon Musk
We don't know what's going to happen.
[01:43:01] Joe Rogan
Yeah, it's a good move.
[01:43:03] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:43:03] Joe Rogan
Piss people off, and everybody are going to have a gun.
[01:43:05] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:43:06] Joe Rogan
You're off to just let that guy get in your lane.
[01:43:08] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah. You know, we got a big test site in Central Texas near Waco.
[01:43:15] Joe Rogan
Oh yeah? Beautiful.
[01:43:16] Elon Musk
Yes, Space X in McGregor. It's about 15 minutes away from Waco.
[01:43:20] Joe Rogan
That's close to where Ted Nugent lives.
[01:43:22] Elon Musk
It is?
[01:43:23] Joe Rogan
Shout out to Ted Nugent.
[01:43:24] Elon Musk
Okay, cool.
[01:43:26] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:43:27] Elon Musk
Yeah, there's -- Youknow, we have lots of fire, and loud explosions, and things, and people-
[01:43:31] Joe Rogan
I bet.
[01:43:31] Elon Musk
... they are cool with it.
[01:43:32] Joe Rogan
They don't give a fuck out there.
[01:43:33] Elon Musk
They're very supportive.
[01:43:34] Joe Rogan
Yeah. You can buy fireworks where, you know, your kids go to school.
[01:43:38] Elon Musk
Yeah. You know, it's dangerous.
[01:43:42] Joe Rogan
Yeah, but it's free.
[01:43:43] Elon Musk
It's free.
[01:43:44] Joe Rogan
There's something about Texas-
[01:43:45] Elon Musk
Exactly.
[01:43:45] Joe Rogan
... that's very enticing because of that. It is dangerous, but it's also free.
[01:43:49] Elon Musk
Right.
[01:43:50] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:43:51] Elon Musk
Yeah. I kind of like Texas actually.
[01:43:53] Joe Rogan
I prefer it over places that are more restrictive but more liberal because you could always be liberal. Like just because things are free
and just because you have a certain amount of, you know, right wing type characters, it doesn't mean you have to be that way, you
know.
[01:44:09] Elon Musk
No.
[01:44:09] Joe Rogan
And, honestly, there's a lot of those people that are pretty fucking open minded and let you do whatever you want to do.
[01:44:14] Elon Musk
Right.
[01:44:14] Joe Rogan
As long as you don't bother them.
[01:44:17] Elon Musk
Yeah, exactly.
[01:44:18] Joe Rogan
That's my hope right now with the way we're able to communicate with each other today and how radically different it is than
generations past because we all -- Just, the dust settles. We all realize, like what you're saying that most people are good.
[01:44:34] Jaime
Most people are good.
[01:44:35] Joe Rogan
The vast majority?
[01:44:36] Elon Musk
Yes. I think if you give people the benefit of doubt, for sure.
[01:44:39] Joe Rogan
I think you're right. You know who could help with that? Mushrooms.
[01:44:44] Elon Musk
Mushrooms.
[01:44:44] Joe Rogan
Don't you think?
[01:44:46] Elon Musk
They're delicious.
[01:44:47] Joe Rogan
Yeah, right.
[01:44:48] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:44:48] Joe Rogan
They're good for you too.
[01:44:50] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:44:50] Joe Rogan
All of them. All kinds of them. What do you see in terms of, like, when you think about the future of your companies, what do you see
is like bottlenecks? Want some more of this?
[01:45:03] Elon Musk
Sure. Thank you.
[01:45:06] Joe Rogan
What do you see in terms of like bottlenecks of things that are holding back innovation? Is it regulatory commissions and people that
don't understand the technology that are influencing policy? Like what could potentially be holding you guys back right now? Is there
anything that you would change?
[01:45:29] Elon Musk
Yeah, that's a good question. You know, I wish politicians were better at science. That would help a lot.
[01:45:40] Joe Rogan
That's a problem.
[01:45:42] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:45:42] Joe Rogan
There's no incentive for them to be good at science.
[01:45:45] Elon Musk
There isn't. Actually, you know, they're pretty good at science in China, I have to say.
[01:45:52] Joe Rogan
Yeah?
[01:45:52] Elon Musk
Yeah. The mayor of Beijing has, I believe, an environmental engineering degree, and the deputy mayor has a physics degree. I met
them, And Mayor says, "Shanghai is really smart and-".
[01:46:04] Joe Rogan
You're up on technology. What do you think about this government policy of stopping use of Huawei phones? And there's something
about the the worry about spying. I mean, from what I understand from real tech people, they think it's horseshit.
[01:46:23] Elon Musk
Oh I-.
[01:46:24] Joe Rogan
Like phones.
[01:46:24] Elon Musk
I don't know. I don't know.
[01:46:26] Joe Rogan
Like the government say, "Don't you buy Huawei phones." Are you up on that at all? No? Should we just abandon this idea?
[01:46:35] Elon Musk
Well, I think, like, I guess, if you have like top secret stuff, then you want to be pretty careful about what hardware you use. But, you
know, like most people do not have top secret stuff.
[01:46:48] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:46:48] Elon Musk
And, like, nobody really cares what porn you watch like, you know.
[01:46:51] Joe Rogan
Right, yeah.
[01:46:53] Elon Musk
It's like nobody actually cares, you know. So-.
[01:46:56] Joe Rogan
If they do, that's kind of them.
[01:46:59] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:46:59] Joe Rogan
It's just like-
[01:47:00] Elon Musk
National spy agencies do not give a rat's ass which porn you watch. They do not care. So, like, what secrets does a national spy
agency have to learn from the average citizen? Nothing.
[01:47:15] Joe Rogan
Well, that's the argument against the narrative. And the argument by a lot of these tech people is that the real concern is that these
companies, like Huawei, are innovating at a radical pace, and they're trying to stop them from integrating into our culture and letting
this. Like right now, they're the number two cell phone manufacturer in the world.
[01:47:35] Elon Musk
Okay.
[01:47:36] Joe Rogan
Samsung is number one. Huawei is number two. Apple is now number three. They surpassed Apple as number two. And the idea is
that this is all taking place without them having any foothold whatsoever in America. There's no carriers that have their phones. You
have to buy their phones unlocked through some sort of a third party, and then put-
[01:47:55] Elon Musk
Okay.
[01:47:56] Joe Rogan
And the worry is, you know, that these are somehow another controlled by the Chinese government. The Communist Chinese
government is going to distribute these phones. And I don't know if the worry's economic influence or they'll have too much power. I
don't know what it is. Are you paying attention on any of this?
[01:48:15] Elon Musk
Not really.
[01:48:15] Joe Rogan
No?
[01:48:16] Elon Musk
I don't think we should worry too much about Huawei phones, you know. Maybe, you know, a national security agency shouldn't
have Huawei phones. Maybe that's a question mark. But I think for the average citizen, this doesn't matter. Just like no, they're not.
I'm pretty sure the Chinese government does not care about the goings of the average American citizen.
[01:48:40] Joe Rogan
Is there a time where you think that there will be no security, it will be impossible to hold back information that whatever bottleneck
we'll let go, we're going to give in? That whatever bottleneck between privacy and ultimate innovation will have to be bridged in order
for us to achieve the next level of technological proficiency that we're just going to abandon it, and there'll be no security, no privacy?
[01:49:10] Elon Musk
Do people want privacy? Because they seem to put everything on the internet. Practically-.
[01:49:13] Joe Rogan
Well, right now, they are confused, but when you're talking about your Neuralink, and this this idea that one day, we're going to be
able to share information, and we're going to be some sort of a thing that's symbiotically connected?
[01:49:26] Elon Musk
Yeah. I think we really worry about security in that situation
[01:49:30] Joe Rogan
And when-
[01:49:30] Elon Musk
For sure. That's like security will be paramount.
[01:49:32] Joe Rogan
Sure.
[01:49:32] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:49:33] Joe Rogan
But, also, what we will be. This will be so much different. Our concerns about money, about status, about where all of these things
will seemingly go by the wayside if we really become enlightened, if we really become artificially enlightened by some sort of an AI
interface where we have this symbiotic relationship with some new internet type connection to information? But, you know, what
happens then? What is important? What is not important? Is privacy important when we're all gods?
[01:50:13] Elon Musk
I mean, I think the things that we think are important to keep private right now-
[01:50:18] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:50:18] Elon Musk
... we probably will not think going forward.
[01:50:19] Joe Rogan
Shame, right? Information, right? What are hiding? Emotions? What are we hiding?
[01:50:29] Elon Musk
I mean, I think, like, I don't know. Maybe it's like embarrassing stuff.
[01:50:33] Joe Rogan
Right, embarrassing stuff.
[01:50:35] Elon Musk
But there's actually -- Like, I think, people, there's like not that much that's kept private that people -- that is actually relevant.
[01:50:43] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:50:44] Elon Musk
That other people would actually care about. When you think other people care about it, but they don't really care about it. And,
certainly, governments don't.
[01:50:50] Joe Rogan
Well, some people care about it. But, then, it gets weird when it gets exposed. Like Jennifer Lawrence, when those naked pictures
got exposed, like, I think, in some ways, people liked her more.
[01:51:01] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:51:01] Joe Rogan
They realized like she's just a person. It's just a girl who likes sex, and is just alive, and has a boyfriend, and sends him messages.
And, now, you get to look into it, and you probably shouldn't have, but somebody let it go, and they put it online, and all right.
[01:51:16] Elon Musk
She seems to be doing okay.
[01:51:17] Joe Rogan
She's a person. She's just you, and me, and it's the same thing. She's just in some weird place where she's on a 35-foot tall screen
with music playing every time she talks.
[01:51:30] Elon Musk
Yeah. I mean, I'm sure like not-
[01:51:33] Joe Rogan
No, but she's fine.
[01:51:33] Elon Musk
She's not happy about it, but she's-
[01:51:35] Joe Rogan
No.
[01:51:35] Elon Musk
But she's clearly doing fine.
[01:51:38] Joe Rogan
But once this interface is fully realized where we really do become something far more powerful in terms of our cognitive ability, our
ability to understand irrational thoughts, and mitigate them, and that we're all connected in some sort of an insane way. I mean, what
are our thoughts on wealth, our thoughts on social status? Like how many of those just evaporate? And our need for privacy, maybe
our need for privacy will be the ultimate bottleneck that we'll have to surpass.
[01:52:13] Elon Musk
I think, the things that we think are important now will probably not be important in the future, but therewill be things that are
important. It's just, like, different things.
[01:52:22] Joe Rogan
What will be more important?
[01:52:22] Elon Musk
I don't know. There might be some more of ideas potentially. I don't think Darwin's going away.
[01:52:32] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:52:33] Elon Musk
Darwin's going to be there.
[01:52:37] Joe Rogan
That was that, yeah.
[01:52:37] Elon Musk
Darwin will be there forever.
[01:52:39] Joe Rogan
Forever, yeah.
[01:52:41] Elon Musk
It would just be a different arena. Different arena.
[01:52:45] Joe Rogan
A digital arena.
[01:52:47] Elon Musk
Different arena. Darwin is not going away.
[01:52:53] Joe Rogan
What keeps you up at night?
[01:52:57] Elon Musk
Well, it's quite hard to run companies.
[01:52:59] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:52:59] Elon Musk
Especially car companies, I would say. It's quite challenging.
[01:53:03] Joe Rogan
The car business is the hardest one of all the things you do?
[01:53:07] Joe Rogan
Yes, because it's a consumer-oriented business as opposed to like SpaceX and-
[01:53:12] Elon Musk
Not that SpaceX because SpaceX is no walk in the park, but a car company, it's very difficult to keep a car company alive. It's very
difficult. You know, there's only two companies in the history of American car companies that haven't gone bankrupt, and that's Ford
and Tesla. That's it.
[01:53:33] Joe Rogan
Yeah, Ford rode out that crazy storm, huh? They're the only one.
[01:53:37] Elon Musk
By the skin of theirteeth.
[01:53:37] Joe Rogan
Shot out to the Mustang.
[01:53:41] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:53:41] Joe Rogan
Yeah, by the skin of their teeth. That is interesting, right?
[01:53:43] Elon Musk
Same with Tesla, we barely survived.
[01:53:45] Joe Rogan
How close did you get to folding?
[01:53:47] Elon Musk
Very close. I mean, 2008 is not a good time to be a car company, especially a startup car company, and especially an electric car
company. That was like stupidity squared.
[01:54:00] Joe Rogan
And this is when you had those cool Roadsters with the T-top?
[01:54:03] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:54:03] Joe Rogan
With a target top?
[01:54:06] Elon Musk
Yeah. We had like a -- It was highlymodified Elise chassis. The body was completely different. By the way, that was a super dumb
strategy that we actually did because we-
[01:54:16] Joe Rogan
What's dumb?
[01:54:17] Elon Musk
It was based on two false premises. One false premise was that we would be able to cheaply convert the Lotus Elise, and use that as
a car platform, and that we'll be able to use technology from this little company called AC Propulsion for the electric drive train on the
battery. Premise, the AC propulsion technology did not work in production, and we ended up using none of it in long-term. None of it.
We had to resign everything.
[01:54:51] Elon Musk
And then once you add a battery pack and electric motor to the car, it got heavier. It got 30% heavier. It invalidated the entire
structure, all the crash structure. Everything had to be redone. Nothing. Like, I think, it had less than 7% of the parts were common
with any other device including cars or anything.
[01:55:13] Joe Rogan
7%?
[01:55:13] Elon Musk
Yes.
[01:55:15] Joe Rogan
Everything? Including tires, and wheels, bolts, brakes?
[01:55:20] Elon Musk
Yeah, even every-
[01:55:21] Joe Rogan
Steering wheel? Seat?
[01:55:21] Elon Musk
The steering wheel was --I think, the steering wheel was almost the same. Yes, the windscreen. The windscreen.
[01:55:31] Joe Rogan
Different?
[01:55:32] Elon Musk
No. I think, the windscreen is the same.
[01:55:33] Joe Rogan
Same?
[01:55:33] Elon Musk
Yes. I think, we were able to keep the windscreen.
[01:55:35] Joe Rogan
But the last was 7%. So, that's basically-
[01:55:37] Elon Musk
Every body panel is different. The entire structure was different. We couldn't use the, like, the HVAC system, the air conditioner. It
was belt-driven air conditioner. So, now, we needed something that was electrically driven. We need a new AC compressor.
[01:55:55] Joe Rogan
And all that takes away from the battery life as well, right?
[01:55:58] Elon Musk
Yeah. We need a small highly efficient air conditioning system that fit in a tiny car and was electrically powered, not belt-driven. It
was very difficult.
[01:56:08] Joe Rogan
How much of those weigh, those cars, the Roadster?
[01:56:12] Elon Musk
I think it was 2700 pounds.
[01:56:14] Joe Rogan
That's still very light.
[01:56:15] Elon Musk
27. Depending on which version, 2650 to 2750 pounds, something like that.
[01:56:19] Joe Rogan
And what was the weight distribution?
[01:56:23] Elon Musk
It was about 50 -- Well, there were different versions of the car. So, it's about 55 on the rear.
[01:56:32] Joe Rogan
That's not bad.
[01:56:32] Elon Musk
It was rear bias.
[01:56:33] Joe Rogan
Right, but not bad. Considering like a 911, which is like one of the most popular sports cars of all time. Heavy rear end bias.
[01:56:41] Elon Musk
Well, I mean, yeah. The 911, I'm not going to joke,is like the master despite Newton not being on their side.
[01:56:50] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:56:51] Elon Musk
I guess, fighting Newton, it's very difficult.
[01:56:53] Joe Rogan
Well-
[01:56:53] Elon Musk
It's like you've got those -- The moments of inertia on a 911 don't make any sense.
[01:56:59] Joe Rogan
They do once you understand them. Once you understand-
[01:57:01] Elon Musk
You don't want to hang the engine off the ass. This is not a wise move.
[01:57:05] Joe Rogan
You don't want to let up on the gas when you're in a corner.
[01:57:09] Elon Musk
The problem with something where the engine is mounted over the rear axle or off the rear axle towards the rear is that your polar
moment of inertia is fundamentally screwed. You cannot solve this. It's unsolvable. You're screwed. Polar moment of inertia,you're
screwed.
[01:57:26] Joe Rogan
Right.
[01:57:27] Elon Musk
Like, essentially, if you spawn the car like a top, that's your polar moment of inertia. You're just -- Ipromise I wouldn't swear on this
show, by the way.
[01:57:37] Joe Rogan
Really?
[01:57:37] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:57:37] Joe Rogan
Says who?
[01:57:37] Elon Musk
This was for a friend.
[01:57:40] Joe Rogan
Tell that friend to go fuck himself. Who told you not to swear?
[01:57:44] Elon Musk
A friend.
[01:57:44] Joe Rogan
He's not a good friend.
[01:57:46] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:57:46] Joe Rogan
That friend need to-
[01:57:46] Elon Musk
I said I wouldn't swear.
[01:57:46] Joe Rogan
... realize you're fucking Elon Musk. You can do whatever you want, man. If you ever get confused, call me.
[01:57:54] Elon Musk
I'll swear in private. Swear up a storm.
[01:57:56] Joe Rogan
Okay, just say freaking. It's a fun way. It's like old house moms. Wives and shit that have children, "Oh, this freaking thing."
[01:58:08] Elon Musk
Yeah. But, anyway, like the Portia, it's kind of incredible how well Porsche handles given that it's the physics-.
[01:58:15] Joe Rogan
Yes.
[01:58:15] Elon Musk
The moments of inertia are so messed up. To actually still make it work well is incredible.
[01:58:21] Joe Rogan
Well, if you know how to turn into the corner once you get used to the feeling of it, there's actual benefits to it. You know, there are
some benefits.
[01:58:28] Elon Musk
I enjoy. The car I had before, Tesla was a 911.
[01:58:33] Joe Rogan
Okay.
[01:58:34] Elon Musk
That was-
[01:58:34] Joe Rogan
997 or 6?
[01:58:36] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:58:36] Joe Rogan
997?
[01:58:37] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:58:38] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Great car, man.
[01:58:41] Elon Musk
Yeah. I mean, particularly, the Porsche wouldn't have the variable veins on the turbo, and it didn't have the turbo lag. That was great.
[01:58:47] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:58:48] Elon Musk
That was really great. The turbo lag is, like, you know, if you flirt, like phone home, call your mom.
[01:58:55] Joe Rogan
The older one, right?
[01:58:55] Elon Musk
It's like about an hour later-
[01:58:57] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:58:57] Elon Musk
... the car accelerates.
[01:58:58] Joe Rogan
And super dangerous too because where it will start spinning and-
[01:59:03] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:59:03] Joe Rogan
Yeah. There's something fun about it though like feeling that rear weight kicking around, you know. And again-
[01:59:08] Elon Musk
No, it's great.
[01:59:09] Joe Rogan
... it's not efficient.
[01:59:09] Elon Musk
It had a good feel to it.
[01:59:10] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[01:59:11] Elon Musk
Yeah, I agree.
[01:59:11] Joe Rogan
But that's what I was talking about earlier about that little car that I have, the '93 911. It's not fast. It's not the best handling car, but it's
more satisfying than any other car I have because it's so mechanical. It's like everything about it, like crack holes, and bumps, and it
gives you all this feedback. And I take it to the comic store because when I get there, I feel like my brain is just popping, and it's on
fire. It's like a strategy for me now that I really stop driving other cars there. I drive that car there just for the brain juice, just for the-
[01:59:47] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:59:47] Joe Rogan
The interaction.
[01:59:50] Elon Musk
I mean, you should try Model S P100D.
[01:59:52] Joe Rogan
I'll try it.
[01:59:53] Elon Musk
It will blow your mind-
[01:59:54] Joe Rogan
Okay.
[01:59:55] Elon Musk
... and your skull.
[01:59:55] Joe Rogan
Okay.
[01:59:56] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[01:59:56] Joe Rogan
Tell me what to order, I'll order it.
[01:59:58] Elon Musk
Model S P100D.
[02:00:00] Joe Rogan
Okay. Jamie, write it down.
[02:00:01] Elon Musk
That's the car that I drive.
[02:00:02] Joe Rogan
Okay. Okay, I'll get the car you drive. Okay.
[02:00:05] Elon Musk
It will blow your mind-
[02:00:06] Joe Rogan
How far can I drive?
[02:00:06] Elon Musk
... out of your skull.
[02:00:07] Joe Rogan
I believe you.
[02:00:08] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:00:08] Joe Rogan
How far can I drive? How far can I drive?
[02:00:10] Elon Musk
About 300 miles.
[02:00:11] Joe Rogan
That's good. For LA regular days, that's good.
[02:00:14] Elon Musk
You will never notice the battery.
[02:00:16] Joe Rogan
Never?
[02:00:16] Elon Musk
Never.
[02:00:17] Joe Rogan
How hard is it to get like one of them crazy plugs installed in your house? That difficult?
[02:00:22] Elon Musk
No, it's super easy. It's like, yeah.
[02:00:24] Joe Rogan
Do you-
[02:00:25] Elon Musk
It's like a dryer plug. It's like a dryer outlet.
[02:00:27] Joe Rogan
Didn't you come up with some crazy tiles for your roof that are solar paneled?
[02:00:31] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah. I have it on my roof right now actually. I'm just trying it out. The thing is it takes a while to test roof stuff because roofs
have to last a long time.
[02:00:40] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:00:40] Elon Musk
So, like, you want your roof to last like 30 years.
[02:00:43] Joe Rogan
Could you put it over a regular roof?
[02:00:45] Elon Musk
No. So, there's two versions. It's like the solar panels you put on a roof. So, like, it depends on whether your roofs new or old. So, if
your roofs new, you don't want to replace the roof. You want to put like solar panels on the roof.
[02:00:55] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:00:55] Elon Musk
So, that's like retrofit, you know. And they were trying to make the retrofit panels look real nice. But then, the new product were
coming out with it is if you have a roof that's either you're building a house or you're going to replace your roof anyway, then you
make the tiles have solar cells embedded in the tiles.
[02:01:14] Elon Musk
And then, it's quite a tricky thing because you want to not see the solar cell behind the glass tile. So, you have to really work with the
glass, and the various coatings, and the layers, so that you don't see the solar cells behind the glass. Otherwise, it doesn't look right.
[02:01:34] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:01:35] Elon Musk
So, it's really tricky.
[02:01:36] Joe Rogan
There it is. Jaime, put it up there.
[02:01:38] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:01:38] Joe Rogan
Man, that looks good. Is there a-
[02:01:41] Elon Musk
See, like, if you look closely, you can see. If you zoom in, like, you can see the cell. But if you zoom out, you don't see the cell.
[02:01:48] Joe Rogan
Right, but it looks though.
[02:01:50] Elon Musk
See?
[02:01:50] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[02:01:50] Elon Musk
Like that's hard.
[02:01:50] Joe Rogan
That's invisible solar cells.
[02:01:52] Elon Musk
It's really hard because you have to get the sunlight go through.
[02:01:55] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:01:55] Elon Musk
But when it gets reflected back out, it doesn't -- it hides the fact that there's a cell there.
[02:02:02] Joe Rogan
Now, are those available to the consumer right now?
[02:02:06] Elon Musk
Well, we have -- I think, that's-
[02:02:07] Joe Rogan
Those on that roof right there?
[02:02:09] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:02:09] Joe Rogan
That's amazing. Oh, that looks good.
[02:02:13] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:02:14] Joe Rogan
Ooh, I like that.
[02:02:15] Elon Musk
That one is hard.
[02:02:16] Joe Rogan
Oh. So, you get that kind of fake Spanish looking thing. I like that.
[02:02:20] Elon Musk
That's French slate.
[02:02:21] Joe Rogan
That's why people in Connecticut are smoking pipes. Look at that one.
[02:02:24] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:02:26] Joe Rogan
That's badass, dude. So, now-
[02:02:28] Elon Musk
This will actually work.
[02:02:30] Joe Rogan
I believe you. So, the solar panels that are on that house that we just looked at, is that sufficient to power the entire home?
[02:02:40] Elon Musk
It depends on your energy on how efficient-
[02:02:42] Joe Rogan
Expenditure?
[02:02:42] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah.
[02:02:43] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:02:43] Elon Musk
So, generally, yes. I would say it's probably for most. It's going to vary, but anywhere from more than you need to maybe half. Like
call it half to 1.5 of the energy that you need, depending on how much roof you have relative to living space.
[02:03:05] Joe Rogan
And how ridiculous you are with your TV.
[02:03:08] Elon Musk
TVs no problem. Air conditioning.
[02:03:09] Joe Rogan
Air conditioning.
[02:03:10] Elon Musk
Air conditioning is the problem. If you have an efficient air conditioner, and you don't -- and depending on how -- like, areyou air
conditioning rooms when they don't need to be air conditioned, which is very common-
[02:03:23] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:03:24] Elon Musk
... because it's a pain in the neck, you know. It's like programming a VCR. It's like-
[02:03:27] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:03:27] Elon Musk
Now, it's just blinking 12:00. So, people are just like, "The hell withthat. I'm just going to make it this temperature all day long.".
[02:03:33] Joe Rogan
Right. You know how asmart home where if you're in the room, then it stays cool, right?
[02:03:37] Elon Musk
Yeah, it should predict when you're going to be home, and then cool the rooms that you're likely to use with a little bit of intelligence.
We're not talking about like genius home here. We're talking like elementary basic stuff.
[02:03:52] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:03:54] Elon Musk
You know, like if you could hook that into the car, like manage you coming home. Like there's no point cooling thehome-
[02:04:01] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:04:01] Elon Musk
... keeping the home really cool when you're not there.
[02:04:03] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:04:03] Elon Musk
But it can tell that you're coming home, it's just going to cool it to the right temperature right when you get there.
[02:04:06] Joe Rogan
Do you have an app that works with your solar panels or anything like that?
[02:04:12] Elon Musk
Yeah. Yeah, we do.
[02:04:14] Joe Rogan
And-.
[02:04:14] Elon Musk
But we need to hook it into the air conditioning to really make the air conditioning work.
[02:04:17] Joe Rogan
Have you thought about creating an air conditioning system? I know you have. Trick question.
[02:04:27] Elon Musk
Cannot answer questions about the future of potential products.
[02:04:29] Joe Rogan
Okay. Let's just let it go. We'll move on to the next thing.
[02:04:33] Elon Musk
That would be an interesting idea.
[02:04:34] Joe Rogan
Yeah, I would say radiant heating and all that, good ideas. Now, when you think about the efficiency of these homes, and you think
about implementing solar power and battery power, is there anything else that people are missing? Is there any other -- Like, I just
saw a smartwatch that is powered by the heat of the human body, and some new technology.
[02:05:00] Elon Musk
It's able to fully power that way?
[02:05:02] Joe Rogan
I don't know-
[02:05:02] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:05:02] Joe Rogan
... if it's fully or if it's -- Like this watch right here, this is a Casio.
[02:05:07] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:05:07] Joe Rogan
It's called a Pro Trek. And it's like an outdoors watch, and it's solar-powered.
[02:05:12] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:05:12] Joe Rogan
And so, it has the ability to operate for a certain amount of time on solar.
[02:05:16] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:05:16] Joe Rogan
So, if you have it exposed, it could function for a certain amount of time on solar.
[02:05:21] Elon Musk
Yeah. Well, you know, like there's self-weighting watches where-
[02:05:25] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[02:05:25] Elon Musk
... you know, it's just got a weight in thewatch. And as you move your wrist, the way it moves from one side to the other, and it winds
the watch up. That's a pretty cool thing.
[02:05:32] Joe Rogan
Yeah, yeah.
[02:05:32] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:05:33] Joe Rogan
Well, it's amazing that like Rolexes that it's all done mechanically.
[02:05:36] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:05:36] Joe Rogan
There's no batteries in there. There is no nothing.
[02:05:38] Elon Musk
Yeah. You could do the same thing. You create a little charger that's based on wrist movement. It really depends on how much
energy your watch uses.
[02:05:45] Joe Rogan
You know what's fucked up about that though? We accept a certain amount of like fuckery with those watches. Like I brought my
watch. I have a Rolex that my friend, Lorenzo, gave me, and I brought it to the watch store, and I said, "This thing's always fast." I
said, "It's always like after a couple of months, it's like five minutes fast." And they go, "Yup." They go, "Yeah."
[02:06:06] Elon Musk
Really?
[02:06:08] Joe Rogan
"It's just what it does."
[02:06:10] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:06:10] Joe Rogan
I go, "Hold on." I go, "So, you're telling me that it just is always going to be fast?" They're like, "Yeah. It'sjust like every few months,
you get like reset it."
[02:06:17] Elon Musk
It seems like they should recalibrate that thing.
[02:06:19] Joe Rogan
They can't. They tried. They say, every few months, whether it's four months, or five months, or six months, it's going to be a couple
of minutes fast.
[02:06:26] Elon Musk
Okay. It seems like they should really recalibrate that because-
[02:06:29] Joe Rogan
You should figure that shit out.
[02:06:30] Elon Musk
... if it's always fast, you can just-
[02:06:30] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:06:30] Elon Musk
... you know, delete those minutes.
[02:06:33] Joe Rogan
You need to fucking kick down the door at Rolex and go,"You bitches are lazy."
[02:06:39] Elon Musk
It's kind of amazing that you can keep time mechanically on a wristwatch with these tiny little gears.
[02:06:43] Joe Rogan
It's amazing.
[02:06:45] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:06:45] Jaime
I mean, the whole luxury watch market is fascinating. I'm not that involved in terms -- Like Idon't buy them. I've bought them as gifts.
I don't buy them for myself. But when I look at them online, there's a million dollar watches out there now that are like they have like a
little rotating moons and stars.
[02:07:04] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:07:04] Joe Rogan
And they live --- Like lookat this thing, how much is that when Jaime?
[02:07:08] Jaime
I don't know. I just picked one.
[02:07:08] Joe Rogan
These are fucking preposterous guess. I like gears. I love them. I love them.
[02:07:13] Elon Musk
Yeah. I think that is beautiful.
[02:07:14] Joe Rogan
But there's some of these people that are just taking it right in the ass. They'rebuying these watches for like $750,000 . Like, "Yeah,
that's a Timex, son." Nobody knows. It's not any better than some Casio that you could just buy on -- Like, look atthat though.
[02:07:28] Joe Rogan
Well, here's the thing. If you're a person that doesn't just want to know the time, you want craftsmanship, you want some artisan's
touch, you want innovation in terms of like a person figuring out how gears and cogs all line up perfectly, to every time it turns over,
it's basically a second. I mean, that's just -- There's this art to that.
[02:07:56] Elon Musk
Yeah, I agree.
[02:07:56] Joe Rogan
Yeah, it's not just telling time. Yeah, I like this watch a lot, but if it got hit by a rock, I wouldn't be sad.
[02:08:02] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:08:02] Joe Rogan
It's just to watch. It's a mass-produced thing that runs on some quartz battery. But those things, there's art to that.
[02:08:10] Elon Musk
Yeah. No, I agree. It's beautiful.
[02:08:12] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[02:08:13] Elon Musk
Yeah. Love it.
[02:08:14] Joe Rogan
Yeah. There's something amazing about it. It's-
[02:08:17] Elon Musk
Right.
[02:08:17] Joe Rogan
Because it represents the human creativity. It's not just electronic innovation. There's something. It's a person's work in that.
[02:08:29] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:08:30] Joe Rogan
You don't have a watch on.
[02:08:32] Elon Musk
No.
[02:08:33] Joe Rogan
Ever?
[02:08:33] Elon Musk
I used to have a watch.
[02:08:34] Joe Rogan
What happened?
[02:08:35] Elon Musk
My phone tells the time. So-
[02:08:39] Joe Rogan
That's a good point. Well, if you lose your phone? Do you -- Wait, hold on.
[02:08:42] Elon Musk
It's true.
[02:08:43] Joe Rogan
Let me guess, you are a no case guy.
[02:08:47] Elon Musk
That's correct. Living on the edge. Living on the edge without a case.
[02:08:53] Joe Rogan
Neil deGrasse Tyson. Neil deGrasse Tyson was in here last week. I'm marveled at his ability to get through life without a case.
[02:08:59] Elon Musk
That's right.
[02:09:01] Joe Rogan
You know, he takes his phone, and he flips it in between hisfingers like a soldier would do with his rifle.
[02:09:08] Elon Musk
Right.
[02:09:08] Joe Rogan
He just rolls that shit in between his fingers.
[02:09:10] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:09:10] Joe Rogan
It's marvelous.
[02:09:11] Elon Musk
Wow.
[02:09:12] Joe Rogan
He says that's the reason why they do it. He said, "Would you look at someone who has a rifle, why would they do that? Why would
they flip it around like that?"
[02:09:20] Elon Musk
Right.
[02:09:21] Joe Rogan
It's like, it goes to drop, they have it in their hand. They catch it quickly.
[02:09:26] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:09:27] Joe Rogan
So, that's what he does with his phone. He's just flipping his phone around all the time. I got that in Mexico. I was hoping it holds joint.
[02:09:34] Elon Musk
Does it do anything? It tips to open.
[02:09:35] Joe Rogan
No.
[02:09:35] Elon Musk
Just a hole?
[02:09:35] Joe Rogan
It's just a hole.
[02:09:35] Elon Musk
You could store things in there.
[02:09:38] Joe Rogan
Yeah. But like try it. Put a joint in there. Close it. You put like one blunt. One, that seems pretentious. You know, that's the idea
behind it. I bought it when I was in Mexico because I figured it would be a good size to hold joints, or it's not.
[02:09:59] Elon Musk
So, is that a joint or is it a cigar?
[02:10:08] Joe Rogan
No.
[02:10:09] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:10:09] Joe Rogan
It's marijuana inside of a tobacco.
[02:10:12] Elon Musk
Okay. So, it's like posh, part tobacco a pot.
[02:10:15] Joe Rogan
Yeah. You never had that?
[02:10:16] Elon Musk
Yeah. I think I tried one once.
[02:10:17] Joe Rogan
Come on, man. You probably can't because of stockholders, right?
[02:10:23] Elon Musk
I mean, it's legal, right?
[02:10:25] Joe Rogan
Totally legal.
[02:10:25] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:10:26] Joe Rogan
How does that work? Do people get upset at you if you do certain things? It's just tobacco and marijuana in there. That's all it is. The
combination of tobacco and marijuana is wonderful. First turned on to it by Charlie Murphy, and then reignited by Dave Chappelle.
There you go.
[02:10:45] Jaime
Plus whiskey.
[02:10:48] Elon Musk
Exactly.
[02:10:49] Joe Rogan
Perfect. It balances it out.
[02:10:52] Elon Musk
Alcohol is a drug that's been grandfathered in.
[02:10:56] Joe Rogan
Well, it's not just a drug. It's a drug that gets a bad rep because you just have a little, it's great.
[02:11:01] Elon Musk
Fine.
[02:11:03] Joe Rogan
Yeah, little sip here and there, and your inhibitions are relaxed, and it shows your true self. And, hopefully, you're more joyous, and
friendly, and happy, and everything. The real worry is the people that can't handle it. Like the real worry about people who can't
handle cars and go 016 in 1.9 seconds or anything.
[02:11:24] Joe Rogan
Have you ever considered something that -- Like, imagine if one day, everyone has a car that's on the same, at least, technological
standard as one of your cars, and everyone agrees that the smart thing to do is not just to have bumpers but to perhaps have some
sort of a magnetic repellent device, something, some electromagnetic field around the cars that as cars come close to each other,
they automatically radically decelerate because of magnets or something.
[02:11:56] Elon Musk
Well, I mean, our cars brake automatically.
[02:11:58] Joe Rogan
Brake?
[02:11:58] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:11:59] Joe Rogan
Yeah. When they see things?
[02:12:00] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:12:01] Joe Rogan
But like a physical barrier, like-
[02:12:06] Elon Musk
Well, the wheels work pretty well.
[02:12:07] Joe Rogan
The wheels do.
[02:12:07] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah. They work pretty well. Decelerated at, you know, 1.1 to 1.2 Gs,that kind of thing.
[02:12:15] Joe Rogan
Is your concern that one day all your cars will be on the road, and then, there'll still be regular people with regular cars 20-30 years
from now that will get in the mix and be the main problem?
[02:12:31] Elon Musk
Yeah. I think, it'd be sort of like, you know, there was atime of transition where there were horses and gasoline cars on the road at
the same time. It's been pretty weird.
[02:12:40] Joe Rogan
That would be the weirdest.
[02:12:41] Elon Musk
Yeah. I mean, horses were tricky. You know, back when Manhattan had like 300.000 horses, then figure out like if a horse lives 15
years, you got 20,000 horses dropping dead every day or every year, I should say. Every year, it's 20,000 horses. If there's 300,000
horses in a 15-year lifespan.
[02:13:00] Joe Rogan
Back in the Gangs of New York days, that movie.
[02:13:06] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:13:07] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[02:13:07] Elon Musk
It's a lot of dead horses. You neededa horse to move the horse.
[02:13:11] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:13:11] Elon Musk
They'll probably get pretty freaked out if they have to move our dead horse.
[02:13:14] Joe Rogan
Do you think they knowwhat's going on?
[02:13:16] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:13:16] Joe Rogan
Do you think it's as hard?
[02:13:17] Elon Musk
I mean, it's got to be like prettyweird.
[02:13:20] Joe Rogan
No, I would imagine.
[02:13:20] Elon Musk
Like, in my mind, draggingthis dead, you know, horse around, and I'm a horse.
[02:13:26] Joe Rogan
Do you-
[02:13:27] Elon Musk
They might not like it.
[02:13:27] Joe Rogan
Do you ever stop and think about your role in civilization? Do you ever stop and think about your role in the culture? Because me, as
a person, who never met you until today, when I think of you, you know, I've always thought of you as being this weirdo super
inventor dude who just somehow or another keeps coming up with new shit, but there's not a lot of you out there. Like everybody else
seems to be -- I mean, obviously, you make a lot of money, and there's a lot of people that make a lot of money. You like that clock?
[02:13:54] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:13:55] Joe Rogan
Pretty dope, right?
[02:13:55] Elon Musk
This is a great clock.
[02:13:57] Joe Rogan
You want one? I'll get you one.
[02:13:59] Elon Musk
Sure.
[02:13:59] Joe Rogan
Okay, done.
[02:14:01] Elon Musk
I like weird things like this.
[02:14:02] Joe Rogan
Oh, this is the coolest. It's TGT Promotion.What is this? TGT Studios? TGT Studios.
[02:14:08] Jaime
Yeah.
[02:14:10] Joe Rogan
Yeah. So, a gentleman who makes all this by hand. Yeah, it's really cool.
[02:14:15] Elon Musk
My study is filled with weird devices.
[02:14:16] Joe Rogan
Well, get ready for another one.
[02:14:19] Elon Musk
All right.
[02:14:20] Joe Rogan
I'm sending it your way.
[02:14:21] Elon Musk
Cool.
[02:14:21] Joe Rogan
You want a werewolf too? I'll hook you up.
[02:14:24] Elon Musk
All right. I'll take one.
[02:14:27] Joe Rogan
Okay. You want a werewolf and one clock coming up. Do you think about your role in the culture? Because me, as a person, who
never met you until today, I've always looked at you and like, "Wow." Like, "How does this guy just keep inventing shit?" Like, how do
you how do you keep coming up with all these new devices? And do you ever consider how unusual -- Like I had a dream once that
there was a million Teslas. Instead of like one Tesla, there was a million Teslas.
[02:14:54] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:14:54] Joe Rogan
Not just the car but Nikola.
[02:14:57] Elon Musk
Oh, yeah, sure.
[02:14:58] Joe Rogan
And that in his day, there was a million people like him who were radically innovative.
[02:15:04] Elon Musk
Wow.
[02:15:04] Joe Rogan
It was a weird dream, man. It was so strange. And I've had it more than once.
[02:15:08] Elon Musk
That would result in a very rapid technology innovation. That's for sure.
[02:15:12] Joe Rogan
It's one of the only dreams of my life I've had more than one time.
[02:15:15] Elon Musk
Okay, wow.
[02:15:15] Joe Rogan
Like where I've woken up, and it's in the same dream. I'm in the same dream. And in this dream, it's 1940s, 1950s, but everyone is
severely advanced. There's flying blimps with like LCD screens in the side of them. And everything is bizarre and strange. And it
stuck with me for whatever -- Obviously, this is just a stupid dream. But for whatever reason, all these years, that stuck with being.
Like it takes one man, like Nikola Tesla, to have more than a hundred inventions that were patents, right. I mean, he had some-
[02:15:51] Elon Musk
He's pretty great.
[02:15:52] Joe Rogan
... pretty fucking amazing ideas.
[02:15:55] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:15:55] Joe Rogan
But there was-
[02:15:56] Elon Musk
Definitely.
[02:15:57] Joe Rogan
In his day, there was very few people like him.
[02:15:59] Elon Musk
Yeah, that was true.
[02:16:01] Joe Rogan
What if there was a million? Like what in the experience-
[02:16:03] Elon Musk
Things would advance very quickly.
[02:16:05] Joe Rogan
Right, but there's not a million Elon Musks. There's one motherfucker. Do you think about that or you just try to not?
[02:16:17] Elon Musk
I don't think. I don't think you'd necessarily want to be me. That'd be good.
[02:16:29] Joe Rogan
Well, what's the worst part about you?
[02:16:31] Elon Musk
I should. I never thoughtpeople would like it that much.
[02:16:32] Joe Rogan
Well, most people would, but they can't be. So, that's like some superhero type shit. You know, we wouldn't wantto be Spiderman.
I'd rather just sleep tight in Gotham City and hope he's out there doing his job.
[02:16:48] Elon Musk
It's very hard to turn it off.
[02:16:51] Joe Rogan
Yeah. What's the hardest part?
[02:16:52] Elon Musk
It might sound great if it's turned on,but what if it doesn't turn off?
[02:16:56] Joe Rogan
Now, I showed you the isolation tank, and you've never experienced that before.
[02:17:00] Elon Musk
No.
[02:17:01] Joe Rogan
I think that could help you turn it off a little bit just for the night.
[02:17:05] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:17:05] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Just give you a little bit of sleep, a little bit of perspective. It's magnesium that you get from the water as well that makes you
sleep easier because the water has Epsom salts in it. But maybe some sort of strategy for sacrificing your -- or not sacrificing but
enhancing your biological recovery time by figuring out a way whether it's through meditation or some other ways to shut off that thing
at night. Like you must have like a constant stream of ideas that's running through your head all the time. You're getting text
messages from chicks.
[02:17:44] Elon Musk
No. I'm getting text messages from a friend saying, "What the hell are you doing smoking weed?".
[02:17:53] Joe Rogan
Is that bad for you? It's legal.
[02:17:56] Jaime
Yeah.
[02:17:56] Elon Musk
I mean-
[02:17:56] Joe Rogan
It's government approved.
[02:17:57] Elon Musk
It's not -- You know, I'm not a regular smoker of weed.
[02:18:02] Joe Rogan
How often do you smoke it?
[02:18:03] Elon Musk
Almost never. I mean, it's-
[02:18:08] Joe Rogan
How does it feel?
[02:18:08] Elon Musk
I don't actually notice any effect.
[02:18:12] Joe Rogan
Well, there you go. There was a time where I think it was Ramadan for someone gave some Buddhist monk a bunch of acid.
[02:18:19] Elon Musk
Okay.
[02:18:20] Joe Rogan
And he ate it, and it had no effect on him.
[02:18:23] Elon Musk
I doubt that.
[02:18:25] Joe Rogan
I would say that too, but I've never meditated to the level that some of these people have where they're constantly meditating all day.
They don't have any material possessions. And all of their energy is spent trying to achieve a certain mindset. I would like to cynically
deny that. I'd like to cynically say, "Hey, just fuck and think the same way I do." They're just hanging out with flip flops on and make
weird noises, but maybe no.
[02:18:51] Elon Musk
You know, I know a lot of people like weed, and that's fine, but I don't find that it is very good for productivity.
[02:19:01] Joe Rogan
For you.
[02:19:02] Elon Musk
Not for me.
[02:19:03] Joe Rogan
Yeah. I mean, I would imagine that for someone like you, it's not. For someone like you, it would be more like a cup of coffee, right.
You want to have a latte.
[02:19:14] Elon Musk
Yeah. It's more like the opposite of a cup of coffee.
[02:19:16] Joe Rogan
What is that?
[02:19:16] Elon Musk
It's like a cup of coffee in reverse.
[02:19:17] Joe Rogan
Weed is?
[02:19:17] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:19:17] Joe Rogan
No, I'm saying you would like more. More like will be beneficial to you. It would be like coffee.
[02:19:24] Elon Musk
I like to get things done. I like to be useful. That is one of the hardest things to do is to be useful.
[02:19:32] Joe Rogan
When you say you like to get things done-
[02:19:34] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:19:34] Joe Rogan
... like, in terms of like what-
[02:19:35] Elon Musk
I should get things done.
[02:19:35] Joe Rogan
... gives you satisfaction? When you complete a project, when something that you invent comes to fruition, and you see people
enjoying it, that feeling.
[02:19:45] Elon Musk
Yes, doing something useful for other people that I like doing.
[02:19:51] Joe Rogan
That's interesting for other people.
[02:19:55] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:19:56] Joe Rogan
So, that, do you think that that is maybe the way you recognize that you have this unusual position in the culture where you can
uniquely influence certain things because of this? I mean, you essentially have a gift, right.
[02:20:12] Elon Musk
Sure.
[02:20:12] Joe Rogan
I mean, you would think it was a curse, but I'm sure it's been fueled by many, many years of discipline and learning. But you,
essentially, have a gift and that you have this radical sort of creativity engine when it comes to innovation and technology. It's like
you're just you're going at very high RPMs.
[02:20:35] Elon Musk
All the time. That doesn't stop.
[02:20:36] Joe Rogan
What is that like?
[02:20:37] Elon Musk
I don't know what would happen if I got into a sensory deprivation tank.
[02:20:42] Joe Rogan
Let's try it.
[02:20:42] Elon Musk
It sounds a little concerning.
[02:20:46] Joe Rogan
But why?
[02:20:47] Elon Musk
It's like running the engine with no resistance. That is-
[02:20:51] Joe Rogan
Is that what it is though? Maybe it's not.
[02:20:53] Elon Musk
Maybe it's fine. I don't know.
[02:20:55] Joe Rogan
How much-
[02:20:55] Elon Musk
I'll try it. I'll try it.
[02:20:57] Joe Rogan
Have you ever-
[02:21:00] Elon Musk
It's fine.
[02:21:00] Joe Rogan
... experimented with meditation or anything?
[02:21:03] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:21:03] Joe Rogan
What do you do, or what have you done rather?
[02:21:08] Elon Musk
I mean, just sort of sit there, and be quiet, and then repeat some mantra, which acts as a focal point. It does still the mind. It does still
the mind, but I don't find myself drawn to it frequently.
[02:21:28] Joe Rogan
Do you think that perhaps productivity is maybe more attractive to you than enlightenment or even the concept of whatever
enlightenment means. Like, what are you trying to achieve when you're meditating all the time? With you, it seems like almost like
there's a franticness to your creativity that comes out of this burning furnace. And in order for you to like calm that thing down, you
might have to throw too much water on it.
[02:21:59] Elon Musk
It's like a never-ending explosion.
[02:22:03] Joe Rogan
Like what is it like? Try to explain it to a dumb person like me. What's going on?
[02:22:10] Elon Musk
Never-ending explosion.
[02:22:12] Joe Rogan
It's just constant ideas just bouncing around.
[02:22:15] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:22:17] Joe Rogan
Damn.
[02:22:18] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:22:19] Joe Rogan
So, when everybody leaves, it's just Elon sitting at home brushing his teeth, just bunch ideas bouncing around your head.
[02:22:26] Elon Musk
Yeah, all the time.
[02:22:30] Joe Rogan
When did you realize that that's not the case with most people?
[02:22:38] Elon Musk
I think, when I was, Idon't know, five or six or something. I thought I was insane.
[02:22:44] Joe Rogan
Why did you think you were insane?
[02:22:45] Elon Musk
Because it is clear that other people do not. Their mind wasn't exploding with ideas all the time.
[02:22:52] Joe Rogan
So, they weren't expressing it. They weren't talking about it all day. And you realized by the time you were five or six like, "Oh, they're
probably not even getting this thing that I'm getting."
[02:23:02] Elon Musk
No. It was just strange. It was like, "Hmm, kind of strange."That was my conclusion, kind of strange.
[02:23:13] Joe Rogan
But did you feel diminished by it in any way? Like knowing that this is a weird thing that you really probably couldn't commiserate with
other people, they wouldn't understand you.
[02:23:25] Elon Musk
I hope they wouldn't find out because they might like put me away or something.
[02:23:27] Joe Rogan
You thought that?
[02:23:28] Elon Musk
For a second, yes.
[02:23:30] Joe Rogan
When you were little?
[02:23:31] Elon Musk
Yeah. They put people away. What if they put me away?
[02:23:32] Joe Rogan
Like when you were little, you thought this?
[02:23:35] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:23:36] Joe Rogan
Wow. Well, you thought, "This is so radically different than the people that are around me if they find out I got this stream coming in."
[02:23:44] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:23:48] Joe Rogan
Whoa.
[02:23:48] Elon Musk
But, you know, I was only like five or six probably.
[02:23:52] Joe Rogan
Do you think this is like -- I mean, there's outliers biologically. You mean, there's people that are 7 foot 9, there's people that have
giant hands, there's people that have eyes that are 20/15 vision. There's always the outliers. Do you feel like you like caught this, like
you have got some -- you're like on some weird innovation creativity sort of wave that's very unusual? Like you tapped into -- I mean,
just think of the various things you may have accomplished in a very short amount of time, and you're constantly doing this. That's a
weird -- You're a weird person, right.
[02:24:36] Elon Musk
Right, I agree.
[02:24:36] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Like what if there's a million Elon Musks?
[02:24:42] Elon Musk
Well, that would be very, very weird.
[02:24:45] Joe Rogan
Whoa.
[02:24:45] Elon Musk
Yeah, it would be pretty weird. I agree.
[02:24:49] Joe Rogan
Real weird.
[02:24:51] Elon Musk
Definitely.
[02:24:55] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[02:24:55] Elon Musk
What if there were a million Joe Rogans?
[02:24:56] Joe Rogan
There probably is. There's probably two million. Imean, I think that's the case with a lot of folks.
[02:25:09] Elon Musk
Yeah. I mean, but, like, you know, my goal is like try to do useful things, try to maximize the probability for the future's good, make
the future exciting, something you look forward to, you know. You know, with Tesla, I want to try to make things that people love.
Like, how do you think you could buy that you really love, that really give you joy? So rare, so rare. I wish there were more things.
That's what we try to do. Just make things that somebody loves.
[02:25:48] Joe Rogan
When you-
[02:25:49] Elon Musk
That's so difficult.
[02:25:49] Joe Rogan
When you think about things that someone loves, like, do you specifically think about like what things would improve people's
experience, like what would change the way people interface with life that would make them more relaxed or more happy? You really
think, like, when you're thinking about things like that, is that like one of your considerations? Like what could I do that would help
people-
[02:26:15] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:26:15] Joe Rogan
... that maybe they wouldn't be able to figure out?
[02:26:18] Elon Musk
Yeah. Like what are the set of things that can be done to make the future better? Like, you know, like so, I think, a future where we
are a space-faring civilization and out there among the stars. This is very exciting. This makes me look forward to a future. This
makes me want that future. You know, the things, there need to be things that make you look forward to waking up in the morning.
[02:26:47] Elon Musk
You wake up in the morning, you look forward to the day, you look forward to thefuture. And a future where we are a space-faring
civilization and out there among the stars, I think, that's very exciting. That is a thing we want; whereas, if we knew we would not be a
space-faring civilization but forever confined to Earth, this would not be a good future. That would be very sad, I think.
[02:27:09] Joe Rogan
It would be so sad in terms-
[02:27:10] Elon Musk
Like I don't want a sad future.
[02:27:10] Joe Rogan
... just the finite lifespan of the Earth itself-
[02:27:15] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:27:15] Joe Rogan
... and the solar system itself. But even though it's possibly -- You know, Imean, how long do they feel like the sun and the solar
system is going to exist? How many hundreds of millions of years?
[02:27:27] Elon Musk
Well, it's probably, if you're saying when does the sun boil the oceans-
[02:27:35] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:27:35] Elon Musk
About 500 million years.
[02:27:37] Joe Rogan
So, is it sad that we never leave because in 500 million years, that happens? Is that what you're saying?
[02:27:45] Elon Musk
No. I just think like if there are two futures, and one future us we're out there among the stars, and the things we read about and see
in science fiction movies, the good ones are true, and we have these starships, and we're going see what other planets are like, and
we're a multi-planet species, and the scope and scale of consciousness is expanded across many civilizations, and many planets,
and many star systems, this is a great future. This is a wonderful thing to me. And that's what we should strive for.
[02:28:24] Joe Rogan
But that's biological travel. That's cells traveling physically to another location.
[02:28:31] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:28:32] Joe Rogan
Do you think that's definitely where we're going?
[02:28:37] Elon Musk
No.
[02:28:37] Joe Rogan
Yeah, I don't think so either. I used to think so. And, now, I'm thinking more likely less than ever. Like almost every day less likely.
[02:28:48] Elon Musk
We can definitely go to the moon and Mars.
[02:28:50] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Do you think we will colonize?
[02:28:51] Elon Musk
I think we will go to the asteroid belt. And we can go to the moons of Jupiter, Saturn, even get to Pluto.
[02:28:57] Joe Rogan
That'd be the craziest place ever if we colonize Mars, and reform it, and turn it into like a big Jamaica. Just oceans and-
[02:29:05] Elon Musk
I think, we should. I think that would be great.
[02:29:07] Joe Rogan
I mean, imagine that there is-
[02:29:08] Elon Musk
That would be great. Amazing.
[02:29:11] Joe Rogan
It's possible, right?
[02:29:12] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:29:12] Joe Rogan
We can turn the whole thing into Cancún.
[02:29:15] Elon Musk
Well-
[02:29:15] Joe Rogan
I mean, over time.
[02:29:17] Elon Musk
It wouldn't be easy but yes.
[02:29:18] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:29:18] Elon Musk
You could just warm -- Youcould warm it up.
[02:29:19] Joe Rogan
Yeah, you can warm it up. You could add air. You get some waterthere. I mean, over time, hundreds of millions of years or whatever
it takes.
[02:29:26] Elon Musk
We'll be a multi-planet species.
[02:29:28] Joe Rogan
Yeah, that would be amazing.
[02:29:29] Elon Musk
We're a multi-planet species.
[02:29:30] Joe Rogan
If we could-
[02:29:30] Elon Musk
That's what we want to be-
[02:29:31] Joe Rogan
... legitimately like air-condition-
[02:29:33] Elon Musk
Great.
[02:29:34] Joe Rogan
... Saturn.
[02:29:34] Elon Musk
I'm pro-human.
[02:29:35] Joe Rogan
Me too. Yeah, me too.
[02:29:37] Elon Musk
I love humanity. I think it's great.
[02:29:39] Joe Rogan
We're glad as a robot that you love humans because we love you too, and we don't want you to kill us and eat us. And-
[02:29:48] Elon Musk
I mean, you know, strangely, I think a lot of people don't like humanity and see it as a blight, but I do not.
[02:29:52] Joe Rogan
Well, I think one of those -- I think, part of that is just they've been -- you know, they've been struggling. When people struggle, they
associate their struggle with other people. They never internalize their problems. They look to other people as holding them back,
and people suck, and fuck people, and it's just -- You know, it's a never ending cycle. But not always. Again, most people are really
good. Most people, the vast majority.
[02:30:22] Elon Musk
This may sound corny.
[02:30:23] Joe Rogan
It does sound corny.
[02:30:24] Elon Musk
But love is the answer.
[02:30:26] Joe Rogan
It is you answer.
[02:30:27] Elon Musk
Yup.
[02:30:28] Joe Rogan
Yeah, it is. It sounds corny because we're all scared. You know, we're all scared of trying to love people, being rejected, or someone
taking advantage of you because you're trying to be loving.
[02:30:40] Elon Musk
Sure.
[02:30:40] Joe Rogan
What if we all could just relax and love each other?
[02:30:46] Elon Musk
It wouldn't hurt to have more love in the world.
[02:30:49] Joe Rogan
It definitely wouldn't hurt.
[02:30:50] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:30:50] Joe Rogan
It would be great.
[02:30:51] Elon Musk
Yeah, we should do that.
[02:30:52] Joe Rogan
Yeah, I agree, man.
[02:30:54] Elon Musk
Like really.
[02:30:55] Joe Rogan
How are you going to fix that? Do you have a love machine you're working on?
[02:30:59] Elon Musk
No, but probably spend more time with your friends and less time on social media.
[02:31:05] Joe Rogan
Now, deleting social media from your applications, from your phones, will that give you a 10% boost to happiness? What do you
think the percentage is?
[02:31:18] Elon Musk
I think probably something like that, yeah.
[02:31:21] Joe Rogan
Yeah, a good 10%.
[02:31:21] Elon Musk
Yeah, I mean, the only thing I've kept is Twitter because I kind of like meet some means of getting a message out, you know.
[02:31:31] Joe Rogan
Right.
[02:31:33] Elon Musk
Well, that's about it. So far so good.
[02:31:38] Joe Rogan
Well, what's interesting with you, you actually occasionally engage with people on Twitter.
[02:31:45] Elon Musk
Yeah, that's-
[02:31:46] Joe Rogan
What percentage of that is a good idea?
[02:31:48] Elon Musk
Good question.
[02:31:53] Joe Rogan
Probably 10%, right? It's hard.
[02:32:00] Elon Musk
It's mostly -- I think, it's on balance, more good than bad, but there's definitely some bad. So-.
[02:32:08] Joe Rogan
Do you ever-
[02:32:08] Elon Musk
Hopefully, the good outweighs the bad.
[02:32:11] Joe Rogan
Do you ever think about how odd it is, the weird feeling that you get when someone says something shitty to you on Twitter, and you
read it? That weird feeling. This weird little negative jolt. It's like a subjective negative jolt of energy that you don't really need to
absorb, but you do anyway. Like, "I want to fuck this guy. Fuck him."
[02:32:29] Elon Musk
I mean, there's a lot of negativity on Twitter.
[02:32:32] Joe Rogan
It is, but it's a weird in it's form. Like the way, if you ingest it as if you're like -- you try to be like a little scientist as you're ingesting it,
you're like, "How weird is this?" And I'm even getting upset at some strange person saying something mean to me. It's not even
accurate.
[02:32:51] Elon Musk
I mean, the vast number of negative comments, for the vast majority, I just ignore them, the vast majority.
[02:32:59] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[02:32:59] Elon Musk
Every now and again, you have draw in, something not good.
[02:33:03] Joe Rogan
It's not good.
[02:33:04] Elon Musk
You make mistakes.
[02:33:05] Joe Rogan
Yes, you can make mistakes.
[02:33:07] Elon Musk
We can make some mistakes.
[02:33:08] Joe Rogan
We're all human. We can make mistakes. Yeah, it's hard. And people love it when you say something, and you take it back, and
they're like, "Fuck you. We saved it forever. I'll fucking screenshot that shit, bitch. You had that thought. You had that thought." I'm
like, "Well, I deleted it." "Not good enough. You had the thought. I'm better than you. I never had that thought. You had that thought,
you piece of shit. Look, I saved it. I put it on my blog. Bad thought."
[02:33:36] Elon Musk
Yeah. I'm not sure why people think that anyone would think that deleting a tweet makes them go away. It's like, "Hello, been on the
internet for a while."
[02:33:45] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Well it's even like-
[02:33:47] Elon Musk
Anything is forever.
[02:33:47] Joe Rogan
And the thing is they don't want you to be able to delete it because the problem is if you don't delete it, and you don't believe it
anymore, it's really hard to say, "Hey, that thing above, I don't really believe that anymore. I changed the way I view things."
[02:34:00] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:34:00] Joe Rogan
Because people would go, "Well, fuck you. I have that over there. I'm going to just take that. I'm not going to payattention to that shit
you wrote underneath it."
[02:34:05] Elon Musk
It's on your permanent record.
[02:34:07] Joe Rogan
Yeah. It's forever like a tattoo.
[02:34:09] Elon Musk
Like high school, "We'll put this on yourpermanent record."
[02:34:11] Joe Rogan
Yeah. It's like a tattoo. You keep it.
[02:34:14] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:34:15] Joe Rogan
Yeah. Well, it's this thing where there's a lack of compassion. It's a lack of compassion issue. People are just like intentionally shitty
to each other all the time online, and trying to catch-
[02:34:27] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:34:27] Joe Rogan
They're more trying to catch people doing something that's arrestable, like a cop trying to, like, get, you know, arrests on his record.
It's like they're trying to catch you for something, more than they're logically looking at it thinking it's a bad thing that you've done, or
that it's an idea they don't agree with so much, they needed to insult you. They're trying tocatch you.
[02:34:48] Elon Musk
Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's way easier to be mean on social media than it is to be mean in person.
[02:34:54] Joe Rogan
Yes.
[02:34:54] Elon Musk
Way easier.
[02:34:55] Joe Rogan
Yeah.
[02:34:56] Elon Musk
Yeah.
[02:34:57] Joe Rogan
It's weird. It's not a normal way of human interacting. It's cheating.
[02:35:02] Elon Musk
True.
[02:35:02] Joe Rogan
You're not supposed to be able to interactso easily when the people are not looking at.
[02:35:06] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:35:06] Joe Rogan
You would never do that. Don't be so mean when somebody looking in their eyes. If you did, you'd feel like shit.
[02:35:11] Elon Musk
Most people.
[02:35:12] Joe Rogan
Yeah, unless you're a sociopath, you'd feel terrible.
[02:35:16] Elon Musk
Yes.
[02:35:19] Joe Rogan
Elon Musk, this has been a pleasure.
[02:35:21] Elon Musk
Yeah, likewise.
[02:35:22] Joe Rogan
It really has been.
[02:35:23] Elon Musk
It's been an honor. Thank you for having me.
[02:35:25] Joe Rogan
Thanks for doing this because I know you don't do a lot of long form stuff like this. I hope I didn't weird you out, and I hope you don't
get mad that you smoked weed.
[02:35:34] Elon Musk
I mean-
[02:35:35] Joe Rogan
It's not bad. It's legal. We're in California.This is just as legal as this whiskey we've been drinking.
[02:35:41] Elon Musk
Exactly.
[02:35:42] Joe Rogan
This is all good, right?
[02:35:43] Elon Musk
Cheers.
[02:35:44] Joe Rogan
Cheers. Thank you. Is there any message you would like to put out other than love is the answer, because I think you really nailed it
with that.
[02:35:53] Elon Musk
No. I think, you know, I think people should be nicer to each other, and give more credit to others, and don't assume that they're
mean until you know they're actually mean. You know, just, it's easy to demonize people. You're usually wrong about it. People are
nicer than you think. Give people more credit.
[02:36:21] Joe Rogan
I couldn't agree more. And I want to thank you not just for all the crazy innovations you've come up with and your constant flow of
ideas but that you choose to spread that idea, which is very vulnerable, but it's very honest, and it resonates with me.
[02:36:40] Elon Musk
It's true.
[02:36:40] Joe Rogan
And I believe it.
[02:36:41] Elon Musk
It's true.
[02:36:41] Joe Rogan
I believe it's true too. So, thank you.
[02:36:43] Elon Musk
You're welcome.
[02:36:44] Joe Rogan
All you assholes out there, be nice. Be nice, bitch. All right. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Elon.
[02:36:50] Elon Musk
All right, thank you.
[02:36:50] Joe Rogan
Good night, everybody.
